
"Tallahassee" is the fifteenth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 167th episode overall. The episode aired on NBC in the United States on February 16, 2012. "Tallahassee" was written by co-executive producer Daniel Chun and directed by series cinematographer Matt Sohn. The episode guest stars David Koechner and Wally Amos.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Dwight returns to Tallahassee to meet with the president of Sabre's special projects, Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate). Meanwhile, in Scranton, Andy fills in for reception and thoroughly enjoys himself.
"Tallahassee" saw the reappearance of Tate as Nellie Bertram. Tate had previously appeared in the seventh season finale, "Search Committee". The episode received mostly positive reviews from critics, with many reviewers noting that the "special projects" storyline helped to give the series a focus. The cold opening, in particular, received significant attention from critics, with many calling it the best of the show's eighth season. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Tallahassee" drew 4.38 million viewers and received a 2.3 rating/6% share in the 18–49 demographic, marking a 12% drop in ratings from the previous episode, "Special Project", and becoming the lowest-rated episode of the series to air, beating the previous record holder, "Hot Girl." Despite this, it was the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker), Cathy Simms (Lindsey Broad), Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) and Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) travel to Tallahassee as part of a team picked for Sabre's new project. On the day of orientation, Dwight wakes everyone up at 5 o'clock in various disruptive ways. Jim, used to waking up at four AM to take care of his children, uses the extra time to stage a murder scene in his room, in order to prank Dwight. He scrawls "It was Dwight" in fake blood on the wall to make it look like Dwight murdered him, and falls out of the closet pretending to be dead.
Jim discovers another side of Stanley, who demonstrates uncharacteristic energy and zeal for life. Stanley explains this is because he is on vacation and away from his family, and offers Jim alcohol at various points during the day. At the orientation meeting, Dwight and Jim find that Todd Packer (David Koechner) is still working at the company after the two of them attempted to get him fired. The president of Sabre's special projects, Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) begins to talk about the project, which encompasses creating a store to rival Apple's chain of stores, and Dwight and Packer start to compete to see who will become her vice president. However, Dwight begins having stomach pains, which Ryan suspects to be appendicitis. Not wanting to be counted out for the vice manager position, Dwight stays at the meeting, but collapses during a presentation. The paramedics confirm appendicitis, and Dwight is rushed into surgery. However, three hours later, after getting his appendix removed, he returns in order to impress his new boss. After nearly butchering a slide-show presentation, he finally impresses Nellie by telling the audience that the only element of marketing that matters is "desire." Nellie subsequently invites Packer and Dwight to have breakfast with her the following day, and Dwight is pleased that he established himself as a candidate and that he can give his appendix to his suspected son as a souvenir. Wally Amos is invited to give a speech on proper business building, but everyone is distracted by the cookies he brought, and Nellie cuts off his speech.
In Scranton, the office is left without a receptionist. Not wanting to get roped into being receptionist again, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) defies Andy Bernard's (Ed Helms) orders to answer the phone. With the rest of the staff similarly declining to answer the phone, Andy is left with no choice but to take on the receptionist's role himself, and performs the job with unexpected gusto. He orders new magazines for the waiting area, cooks mini-pizzas as reception snacks, color-coordinates the desk, and brings in a mail cart to deliver mail. Pam and Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) attempt to talk him out of his newfound enjoyment, believing it to be linked to his lingering feelings for Erin, to no success. At the end of the day, a caller mentions that she misses Erin, to which Andy tells her that he does too.
"Tallahassee" was written by co-executive producer Daniel Chun, his sixth writing credit for the series after joining the writing staff in the fifth season.[2] It was directed by series cinematographer Matt Sohn, his fourth directing credit for the series.[2] "Tallahassee" marked the return appearance of Catherine Tate as a regular character, having previously appeared in the seventh season finale, "Search Committee" as a candidate to replace Michael as office manager.[3] Tate was initially the top choice to join the cast as the manager, but due to a commitment to the West End production of the Shakespeare play, Much Ado About Nothing she was unable to join the series at the start of the season.[4][5] Her character, Nellie is re-introduced as the Head of Special Projects for Sabre, and subsequently works in the Scranton office from "Get the Girl".[6] The episode also marked the return appearance of David Koechner, who portrays Todd Packer in the series.[1] He recently made a deal with NBC to do more episodes for the series and also possibly join the cast of series developer Greg Daniels's next series, Friday Night Dinner, an adaption of the British series of the same name.[7]
The episode also marks the ninth appearance of Lindsey Broad, who portrays Cathy, Pam's replacement during her maternity leave.[8] She appeared in a recurring role for the season, after she initially appeared in "Pam's Replacement".[8]
Sabre's Pyramid tablet makes a reappearance, after making its debut in the episode "The Incentive".[9] The device serves as a parody of several tablet computers, specifically the Apple iPad.[9] B. J. Novak described the device as "really the worst piece of technology that you've ever seen."[10]  "Florida Stanley" tells Jim to play Kenny Loggins on his iPod in the car, but Jim confuses his request for Loggins and Messina.[2] After Andy buys the office new magazines, Creed is shown zealously reading Dwell.[2] Dwight compares his team to the "enemies of Seabiscuit."[2] At the very end of the episode Wally "Famous" Amos makes an appearance and attempts to talk about success before he is cut off by Nellie, who demands that he serve his famous cookies.[2]
The brief exterior shot of the hospital where Dwight had his appendix removed, is the same building that was used in the opening credits of General Hospital, the Los Angeles County - USC Medical Center.
"Tallahassee" originally aired on NBC in the United States on February 16, 2012.[1] The episode was viewed by an estimated 4.38 million viewers and received a 2.3 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[11] This means that it was seen by 2.3% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[11] This marked a twelve percent drop in the ratings from the previous episode, "Special Project."[11] In addition, the episode was, at the time, the lowest-rated episode of the series to air, beating the first season finale, "Hot Girl", which gathered 4.8 million viewers. The episode finished third in its time slot, being beaten by Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.2 rating/8% share and the CBS drama Person of Interest which received a 2.8 rating/7% share in the 18–49 demographic.[11] The episode beat The CW drama series The Secret Circle.[11] Despite this, "Tallahassee" was the highest-rated NBC television episode of the night.[11] After DVR usage was taken into account, the episode increased its viewership by 61.1%, being viewed by a total of 7.053 million viewers.[12]
"Tallahassee" received largely positive reviews from critics, with many noting that the Florida story-line gave the series a focus. TV Equals noted that the episode was "one of the best episodes of The Office this season and [possibly] one of the better episodes from the last couple of seasons."[13] Brian Marder from Hollywood.com wrote a largely positive review, noting that "Overall, tonight represented a significant step back in the right direction – and hope that maybe the series still has hope... More promisingly, the humor was top-notch, funnily similar to the effortless comedy of early seasons and refreshingly dissimilar to the forced, uncharacteristic stuff that has pervaded season 8."[14] Bret Davinger from the California Literary Review noted that "A couple of weeks ago, I complained about The Office spending too much time away from the office. How was I to know that taking a trip to Tallahassee would produce probably the best episode of the season and maybe one of the best episodes of the past couple of seasons?"[15] Davinger went on to note that the change in scenery from the office set to Tallahassee was working for the series.[15] In addition, he noted that episode did not feature any hints of Erin's desire to stay in Florida or Cathy's attempt to seduce Jim, a move he hoped would be permanent.[15]  Jeffrey Hyatt from Screencrave awarded the episode an 8 out of 10 and wrote that "between 'Special Project' and 'Tallahassee' it’s fair to say that The Office is on a nice little run. Everything good and funny about last week's episode spilled over to 'Tallahassee'."[16] TV Fanatic reviewer Dan Forcella awarded the episode four out of five stars.[17] Despite praising the episode for coming "together as one of the best Office episodes of the season," he criticized Dwight's main plot, calling it "not funny."[17] The Filtered Lens reviewer Matt Dougherty called the episode "solid" and noted "While 'Tallahassee' was not quite as good as last week, it still is a step in the right direction for this struggling show."[18] He ultimately awarded the episode a 7 out of 10.[18] Many reviews praised the episode's cold opening, with many critics calling it one of the funniest openings of the eighth season.[13][18][19] What Culture! reviewer Jeffrey Kratzer, despite awarding the episode three out of five stars, wrote, "'Tallahassee' was so enjoyable (for the most part) that [the] next few episodes look to be the excitement and focused momentum we've been waiting for all season."[20]
Conversely, The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt gave the episode a C− rating and criticized the episode's lack of complexity.[21] He wrote that, "I would argue, though, that [undeveloped characters are] part of the show’s problem right now" and noted that Tate's performance was expanded "little ... beyond her initial appearance last season."[21] In a review for the subsequent episode, "After Hours", however, McNutt acknowledged that, "If I'm being honest with [sic], last week's probably should have been above a 'C-,' but I went with my gut and have to stand by that decision."[22]


Part 2
"Search Committee" is the two-part finale of the seventh season of the American television comedy series The Office. It comprises the 151st and 152nd episodes of the series overall and the 25th and 26th episodes of the seventh season. It originally aired on NBC on May 19, 2011 in the United States.  In the episode, Deangelo's replacement is sought out through a search committee process led by Jim (John Krasinski). Meanwhile, Angela (Angela Kinsey) becomes engaged to her state senator boyfriend, Robert (Jack Coleman), while the rest of the office believes he is gay.
The episode was written by show runner and executive producer Paul Lieberstein and was directed by Jeffrey Blitz. The episode featured several guest appearances including one from The Office co-creator Ricky Gervais, his second appearance on the series.[1] The episode also marks the first appearances of Robert California and Nellie Bertram, the former of whom was a series regular in the eighth season while the latter had a recurring appearance in the eighth season and was a series regular in the ninth and final season.
"Search Committee" received mixed reviews from critics with multiple critics commenting on the multiple guest stars. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Search Committee" was viewed by an estimated 7.29 million viewers and earned a 3.9 rating/10% share in the 18–49 demographic, marking a rise in the ratings from the previous episode and the previous season finale.
With Deangelo Vickers still in a coma, Dunder Mifflin–Sabre Scranton is left with Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) as interim regional manager, who does many poor managerial activities, such as having numerous meetings without actually calling anyone, repeatedly misnaming employees, and creating meaningless acronyms. Jo Bennett (Kathy Bates) puts Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) and Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) into a committee to interview candidates for the manager position, including Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling), and a number of outsiders, including a personal friend of hers, Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate), who suggests various strange methods for running an office, including a "zen garden" theme and removal of all official titles for Dunder Mifflin Scranton.
Several applicants exhibit odd behavior: one (Will Arnett) refuses to explains his three-step plan, another (Warren Buffett) is concerned about gas price and long distance phone calls, another (Jim Carrey) is adamant on having a vacation to the Finger Lakes, and one named Robert California (James Spader) talks in confusing riddles that both baffle and impress the committee. David Brent (Ricky Gervais) also applies, making an appearance via webcam. To stop Creed from calling major clients and telling them the office is about to go out of business, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer)  distracts him with activities such as having him try to find the differences between two copies of the same picture, and poses as various clients when Creed has Jordan Garfield (Cody Horn) contact them.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), still upset over being demoted by Jo, stops taking care of himself and openly looks through want ads in the office. His attitude changes when Robert disparages the position and the office to a sketchy, uncommitted interviewee (Ray Romano). Dwight becomes incensed that the position might go to someone who does not take it seriously. He demands to be interviewed, and while Jim balks, after Dwight's persistent efforts to acquire an interview (particularly by disguising himself as a French burn victim named Jacques Souvenier), Jo instructs Jim to grant him one, as she likes "a little bit of crazy." Jim had earlier firmly shot down Dwight's extensive bribe list for Jim's support, and quickly ends his formal interview.
Darryl thinks his popularity with the staff will make him a shoo-in, so he is caught off-guard when he actually must do an interview and submit a resume. Darryl writes up an extensive four-page resume, which Jo derides, though Jim encourages Darryl by saying that the interview and resume are mere formalities for him. When Andy interviews for the manager position, Gabe attempts to sabotage him by asking random trivia questions, which Andy successfully answers, and Gabe ends up screaming at him "SHUT UP ABOUT THE SUN" and then proceeds to bang his fist on the table which also upsets Andy. Gabe is also dismissive of Kelly during her interview, saying she is not a "serious candidate". Kelly exacts revenge by telling Jo about Gabe's relationship with Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) and his harassing behavior after their breakup. In response, Jo sends him back to Sabre's Florida headquarters and installs Kelly in Gabe's position on the search committee. Kelly then says she has accepted Dwight's bribery and looks forward to the benefits of his return to the manager's chair, as Toby haltingly says they could give Dwight another trial run and Jim looks on in horror.
After Phyllis tells Jim that Kelly and Dwight have "pre-fired" her, Jim tells Dwight he is not and will not be the manager, and the office begins arguing about who will be selected. The discussion gets out of control, with Ryan (B. J. Novak) preferring a homeless man, Andy declaring he wants the job, Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) wanting a "smart, professional, decisive, well-hung man in his forties," Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) speaking solely for attention, and Darryl's daughter Jada asking out loud if Jim is the guy making her father manager. Jim cuts the discussion short and brings the committee back to the conference room to make up their minds.
Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) and Erin await the results of a DNA test to see if Erin is the daughter previously given up by Phyllis in high school. The results are negative, but Phyllis holds off on telling Erin after Andy rejects Erin's proposal to start dating again, and continues to show maternal affection toward her.
Angela becomes engaged to her state senator boyfriend, Robert. Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez), who strongly believes that Robert is gay, shares his feelings with Pam. Most of the office thinks so as well. They eventually decide not to tell Angela for a wide range of reasons—not everyone is sure Robert is gay, Oscar is looking forward to the elegant wedding, and Pam does not think it is anyone's right to blurt out that information. Angela is rude about her nuptial plans, first sing-songing to an indifferent Stanley that they might not have room to invite him to the wedding, and then asking Pam if she can borrow the plans for the dream wedding Pam never got to have, before mocking the ceremony where Pam and Jim got married at Niagara Falls. Pam is tempted to spill the beans about Robert's sexuality, but smiles sweetly and wishes Angela "a very happy wedding".
"Search Committee" was written by showrunner and executive producer Paul Lieberstein, who also plays Toby Flenderson on the show, his 14th writing credit of the series. The episode was directed by Jeffrey Blitz, the ninth episode he has directed for the series. The episode features special guest appearances from Ricky Gervais (as his character David Brent from the original British version of The Office), Catherine Tate, Will Arnett, Ray Romano, James Spader, Jim Carrey, Cody Horn and Warren Buffett.[1] Gervais previously appeared in the episode "The Seminar", and co-wrote the episodes "Pilot" and "The Convict"; he also serves as an executive producer for the series.[2] In addition to appearing in "Search Committee", Gervais contributed to the episode script.[3] Initially the guest stars were planned to be a secret, before all were revealed to the media.[4] Lieberstein described the moments with the guest stars in the episode as "more than a montage. It's a number of scenes. We fit it in. We stuff it in".[4]
The episode script was initially 75 pages long, 10 pages too long to stay within the episode's time slot; this led to several cuts, a common problem for episodes of the series according to writer, B. J. Novak.[5] The script received several laughs from the cast and producers specifically for lines read by Creed Bratton and Kathy Bates.[5] "Search Committee" was one of the first episodes not to feature former Office lead actor Steve Carell; the feeling during filming was "weird" according to Lieberstein.[4] Carell's departure made it possible for more scenes with secondary characters, and also allowed for the "very long group scene",[4] described as "observational and conversational" by Novak.[5] The episode features a storyline hinted in "Goodbye, Michael" in which it is hinted that Phyllis is Erin's birth mother.[6][7] The rumor was started during an interview with executive producer Greg Daniels with Entertainment Weekly in which he stated "A tiny mystery story – which I'm not sure anyone’s going to catch and will come out a few episodes from now – is being set up here".[8]
The episode also marks the third and final appearance of Cody Horn as Jordan Garfield, Deangelo's executive assistant, and the first of three new roles since Carell's departure. The role was originally said to be recurring at first with a chance of her becoming a series regular in the eighth season.[9] She eventually did not return for the eighth season.[10] Immediately after "Search Committee" first aired, NBC posted Andy, Dwight and Darryl's resume on their official website and allowed fans to vote for who they believed should be the manager.[11] Spader would later join the cast as CEO of Sabre in the eighth season[12] while Tate is currently set to return in the second half of the eighth season as romantic interest for Robert California.[13] In the eighth-season premiere, "The List", Andy was revealed to be the new manager.[14] Arnett was considered a high possibility to appear on the series, but could not due to his commitment to the NBC comedy series Up All Night.[5] This also marks the eighth and final appearance of Kathy Bates as Jo Bennett. The opening episode of the eighth season would refer to Jo stepping down from her position as Sabre CEO and hiring Robert California to replace her.
Darryl calls Microsoft and asks whether they still have Clippy, an unpopular feature from Microsoft Office.[15] Phyllis mentions that many babies were born in 1982 due to the release of the 1981 comedy film Porky's.[1] Ryan insults Pam, saying that she would prefer Rachael Ray or the hosts of The View as the new manager.[1] At one point in the episode, Angela says "It's a little flashy. I mean, what am I, Naomi Judd?", a reference to the country music singer.[1]
In its original American broadcast on May 19, 2011, "Search Committee" was viewed by an estimated 7.29 million viewers and received a 3.9 rating/10% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[16][17] This means that it was seen by 3.9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a rise in the ratings from the previous episode, "Dwight K. Schrute, (Acting) Manager", and a rise from the sixth season finale, "Whistleblower".[16] The episode became the highest rated scripted program on Thursday and ranked first in its timeslot, beating the season finales for Grey's Anatomy, Bones and The Mentalist.[17] "Search Committee" was the seventh most-watched scripted show for the week of broadcast among adults aged 18–49.[18]
The episode received generally mixed reviews from critics. Myles McNutt from review website The A.V. Club gave the episode a B−, saying that it was "a funny episode that managed to be only fitfully satisfying."[15] IGN reviewer Cindy White commented that "it's more apparent than ever that 'Goodbye, Michael' should have ended the season, if not the series," and that "the show is just spinning its wheels now".[19] Despite this, she praised the scenes featuring Creed Bratton and James Spader, believing Bratton's performance consisted of "the funniest scenes of the episode", and that Spader "was given the meatiest part, gamely channeling his dominating boss role from Secretary".[19] White ultimately gave the episode a 6.5/10, calling it "Okay".[19] TV Squad writer Joel Keller criticized the episode for not featuring a true plot, writing that "this felt like a series of sketches in search of a plot."[20] The Office co-creator Ricky Gervais also commented on the outlandishness, particularly Warren Buffett's appearance, saying "If you're going to jump a shark, jump a big one."[21] He also compared the episode to the Chris Martin episode of Gervais's other series, Extras.[2] The shark quote was repeated multiple times on other media outlets;[22][23] Gervais eventually commented that "I fucking didn't [diss The Office], that's for sure."[21]
Alan Sepinwall of HitFix referred to the episode as a "bumpy, awkward, great big mess of a finale" and a "very poorly-executed sweeps stunt".[24] He also wrote that the guest stars "did not fit comfortably into the world of the show".[24] Entertainment Weekly writer Hillary Busis called the episode a "major cop out" and criticized the writers for having a whole year to figure out how to end the season, but instead waiting to announce the new manager in the fall.[25] She ultimately concluded that "I don't love some of the choices the show has made recently" and that "the show has just been spinning its wheels for the past several weeks".[25] Many critics expressed relief that Erin and Phyllis were not mother and daughter.[15][19] "Search Committee" was voted the fourth lowest-rated episode out of 24 from the seventh season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 6.93 out of 10.[26] In another poll, "Search Committee" was voted the thirteenth-highest rated episode out of 24 from the seventh season, according to a "Survivor" poll by OfficeTally.[27] Jim Carrey later received a nomination for "Favorite TV Guest Star" at the 38th People's Choice Awards.[28]


"The Convict" is the ninth episode of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 37th overall. It first aired on November 30, 2006 in the United States on NBC. The episode was the series' only original script written by Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant, who are the creators of the original British comedy series of the same name. It was directed by Jeffrey Blitz, his first such credit of the series.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton and Stamford branches of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) discovers that an employee named Martin Nash (Wayne Wilderson), who came with the branches' recent merger, was previously in prison. Michael becomes frustrated when Martin's stories of prison sound better than working in the office. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) plays a prank on Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) by giving incorrect information to Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) on how to impress her.
According to Nielsen Media Research, an estimated 9.07 million viewers watched "The Convict" on its first broadcast, making it up to that point the largest audience of the season. Among adults aged 18 to 49, it earned a 4.4/11 ratings share, finishing in eighteenth place for the week among all the major networks. Television critics were largely positive towards the episode, particularly Carell's "Prison Mike" sequence as well as Helms' performance as Andy Bernard.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) learns that black employee Martin Nash (Wayne Wilderson) is a former criminal, and tells the entire office. During this time, in a misguided effort to avoid issues of stereotyping and racism Michael asks the employees to name a white person that they trust and he will name a black person he trusts even more. The name Jesus pops up and Michael replies with Apollo Creed. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) encourages Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) to pursue Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), and intentionally gives him information about her strong dislikes. Later, Andy strums "Rainbow Connection" on his banjo while singing falsetto. Pam smiles politely and silently shares the joke with Jim.
Martin tells the others he was incarcerated for insider trading, and that he enjoyed certain perks of prison, including outside time and art classes. Pam comments that prison sounds better than their current work situation. Attempting to convince his employees that the office is better than prison, Michael sends everyone to "outside time" in the bitter cold. He then calls a meeting in which he adopts the persona of "Prison Mike", who attempts to persuade the workers to know why prison is much worse than they think. Martin comments that Michael's performance did not remind him of his time in prison. This further infuriates Michael, who then locks all of the staff inside the conference room. In order to have his co-workers released, Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) tells Michael the staff is simply teasing him. After letting the agitated workers go, a relieved Michael relents, but Martin chooses to quit.
"The Convict" was written by Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant, the creators of the British comedy series of the same name.[3][4] It was their first and only original script for the American series,[5] after years of creator and executive producer Greg Daniels imploring them to participate. Gervais and Merchant had refused previously because they believed that the American show should be written by Americans, and only changed their minds after watching the second season.[6]
Gervais first worried that he was too unfamiliar with office protocol in the United States, noting that he "knew everything about this place (in England), the pitfalls, the dos and don'ts. Whereas in America, I don't know if I'm getting it right or not."[6] Despite this, his script writing went "remarkably fast. I suppose that's because we'd been away from those characters for two or three years. It's one of our favorite shows, the American Office."[5] Gervais and Merchant spent several days debating phrasing and language, leading them to a point where they felt they had "translated it pretty well" for American viewers.[6]
"The Convict" was the first Office episode to be directed by Jeffrey Blitz,[7] who later won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series for the fifth season episode "Stress Relief" in 2009.[8] In a departure from series routine, Gervais and Merchant were not present on set for much of filming, though episode writers had typically been available in the past.[9] Actress Kate Flannery found the episode "a lot of fun to shoot," and observed that on the occasions Gervais was present, "it seems to me like he is looking at all of us with a sense of, 'I can't believe that this exists because of me.' That is just my interpretation, but he seems so humble, and kind of reverent."[9] One scene was meant to take place outdoors under cold temperatures, so the parking lot set was laden with fake snow and slush. Also present on set were two sets of twin babies, as the character of Hannah Smotridge-Barr brings her son to the office.[9]
The third season DVD contains several scenes that were deleted from the final cut of the episode. These include Dwight and Andy verbally sparring in the kitchen, Dwight informing Michael that he believes Martin has murdered Meredith, Michael explaining that he created "Prison Mike" in an improvisation class, and Pam giving Andy wildly incorrect tips for hanging out with Jim.[10]
"The Convict" was first broadcast on NBC in the United States on November 30, 2006,[11] near the end of the fall sweeps period.[12] According to Nielsen Media Research, it was watched by an estimated 9.07 million viewers, the highest number of the series' season up to that point. The episode earned a 4.4/11 ratings share among adults aged 18 to 49, meaning that it was seen by 4.4 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of broadcast.[13] Among that demographic, The Office finished in eighteenth place for the week among all of the major networks.[14]
Eric Goldman of IGN rated "The Convict" 9 out of 10, an indication of an "amazing" episode. He wrote that "while this wouldn't qualify as one of the very best episodes of the series, the great news is, Gervais and Merchant did an excellent job, working very well within the same-but-different world the US version of the show has created, and delivering some of the biggest and best laughs of the season."[4] Mark A. Perigard of the Boston Herald however was more critical of the episode, explaining that "Carell is a fearless actor, but he can't stop a train wreck. The B-story is better, as Jim decides to prank Pam by coaching Andy on just the wrong way to woo the receptionist. The Office has been erratic all season, but even at its worst, it's still the best comedy on television."[15]
Writing for AOL TV, Michael Sciannamea thought "The Convict" seemed different from previous episodes, citing as evidence the scene of Michael and Martin discussing trustworthy black men; Sciannamea attributed this to its guest writers: "I don't think Gervais and Merchant went over the top...it just seemed a little different than the others."[16] Also in his review, Sciannamea expressed his gradual enjoyment of Andy, "When I first saw him up in Stamford, I thought he was just the Connecticut version of Dwight. But now I think he adds greatly to the mix and is definitely one who is going to stir things up in Scranton."[16] Give Me My Remote's Kath Skerry believed "the uncomfortable, unbearably awkward moments that the UK version perfected are definitely present throughout the episode."[3] She also praised Helms for "prov[ing] once again how perfectly he fits in on this show as he is absolutely hysterical."[3]
Entertainment Weekly columnist Abby West was pleased with the Jim-Karen storyline and called it "a nice, normal progression for two single people who are into each other."[17] She also praised Jim's prank on Pam, especially viewing Helms' performance "amazingly funny as this oblivious blowhard."[17] Referring to "Michael's earnest determination not to assume that Martin was the ex-con whom the Stamford office had hired," West found the episode to be a satire of "white liberal guilt".[17] Reviewers were also positive towards the "Prison Mike" sequence,[4][16] with West calling it "a dead-on impersonation of a badass convict."[17] Television Without Pity gave the episode an "A−".[18]


"Boys and Girls" is the fifteenth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's twenty-first episode overall. It was written by B. J. Novak and directed by Dennie Gordon and first aired on February 2, 2006, on NBC. The episode guest stars Melora Hardin as Jan Levinson, Craig Robinson as Darryl Philbin, and Patrice O'Neal as Lonny.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company.  In this episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) becomes frustrated when he is not allowed to listen in on a "women in the workplace" seminar that Jan is conducting, so he conducts his own "men in the workplace" seminar in the warehouse, where talk of a warehouse union emerges. Meanwhile, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) considers graphic design.
The genesis for the episode came from an idea cast members Angela Kinsey and Fischer had while spending time together on the set of the series. During the filming, Carell and the warehouse men were filmed on one set and Fischer and the office women filmed on another. The episode was viewed by 9.21 million viewers.[2] "Boys and Girls" received largely positive reviews from critics.
Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) leads the female Dunder Mifflin employees in a "women in the workplace" seminar. Miffed at being excluded, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) conducts a competing “men in the workplace” seminar in the warehouse. Roy Anderson (David Denman) approaches Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) under the belief that Jim used to like Pam, assuring Jim that he is not mad since Jim apparently liked Pam a long time ago. Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) and his equally irritated crew are forced to participate in Michael's shenanigans, which culminates in Michael trying to drive a forklift, and knocking down several shelves.
Michael's recklessness makes a complete mess of the warehouse while jeopardizing the employees' safety. Michael's plan to hold his own seminar backfires when the 'gripe session' inspires the warehouse workers to form a union. A vacillating Michael informs Jan, who threatens to retaliate by closing the Scranton branch.
Jan urges Pam to take a corporate training program in graphic design in New York City when Pam reveals that she wants to be a graphic designer, but Roy quashes the idea. Jim rebukes Pam for listening to Roy when he is clearly wrong and acting selfish, which creates tension between them. Pam then tells the camera she is happy with her life now, and that they do not even make her dream house in Scranton, but then breaks down and cries in front of the camera. As the day comes to a close, Michael leaves the warehouse in complete disarray, and Darryl promises that “this isn't over.”
"Boys and Girls" was directed by Dennie Gordon; it was written by B. J. Novak, who plays Ryan Howard on the show.[3][4] The genesis for the episode came from cast members Angela Kinsey and Jenna Fischer. The two originally formulated the premise while spending time together on the set of The Office: "What if Jan came into the office and did a 'Women in the Workplace' seminar, and Michael got all jealous?" They presented their concept to executive producer Greg Daniels, who liked the idea. Daniels subsequently assigned the idea to Novak, who crafted the final episode.[4] Pam's monologue on reading about a girl who lived in a house with a terrace was based on a real book from the Choose Your Own Adventure series (although not specifically identified as such in the episode) that Fischer had read when she was a child.[5] When the show's cast and crew appeared at the Paley Center, Fischer related that Novak asked her if she had any personal stories that could relate to what Pam was feeling at the time the episode was being written. She then came up with the storybook idea, which was immediately written and filmed for the episode.[6]
Fischer later called the episode "both the most masculine and most feminine episode of The Office yet".[4] This is largely because, during the filming, the different sections were shot separately: Carell and the warehouse filmed on one set and Fischer and the office women filmed on another. The women of The Office later said that "it was great" to spend time with each other.[4] Fischer later claimed that the women spent a large part of the filming time talking and "behav[ing] like seventh-graders."[4]
The Season Two DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Michael asking Pam and Jim for help choosing a ringtone, Roy and Dwight talking about guns, Dwight shooting his spud gun, and Dwight agrees that "there's no place like home".[7]
Michael compares modern working women to Ally McBeal, the titular lead of the American legal comedy-drama television series of the same name.[8] Dwight compares venturing into the warehouse to the television series Lost, specifically when the characters in Lost meet the mysterious "Others". When Michael is sitting with his shirt unbuttoned, one of the warehouse workers calls him "Hasselhoff", a reference to actor David Hasselhoff. Kelly baits Jan by feigning ignorance about the various baseball metaphors for sex. The blow-up doll with Michael's face on it is a reference to the earlier second season episode "Sexual Harassment".[9]
"Boys and Girls" originally aired on NBC in the United States on February 2, 2006.[10] The installment was viewed by 9.21 million viewers.[2][11]
"Boys and Girls received largely positive reviews from television critics. Michael Sciannamea of AOLTV called it "another brilliant episode", noting that Carell was "at his obnoxious and comedic best".[8] He also complimented the maturation of Jim and Pam's relationship, writing that it "seems like it's coming to a cliffhanger in the next few weeks".[8] M. Giant of Television Without Pity gave the episode a positive review and awarded it an "A−".[9] Brendan Babish of DVD Verdict awarded the episode a "B" and called it "a solid but uneventful" outing for the show.[12]
Elements of "Boys and Girls" have been analyzed in a legal context. Jan's threat to have the warehouse closed if the employees unionize is unlawful under the National Labor Relations Act of 1935.[13] American Rights at Work analyzed the episode and noted that "the show served up the hard truth about how far employers will go to stop their employees from forming a union."[13]


"Classy Christmas" is the collective name for the eleventh and twelfth episodes of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 137th and 138th episodes overall. Written by Mindy Kaling and directed by Rainn Wilson, the episode originally aired on December 9, 2010 on NBC. "Classy Christmas" guest stars Jack Coleman as Senator Robert Lipton, Rob Huebel as A.J., Mark Proksch as Nate, and marks the return of Amy Ryan as Holly Flax.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is overjoyed about the return of his old love, Holly Flax (Ryan). Michael forces Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) to plan a second Christmas party for Holly's return to Scranton. Meanwhile, Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) convinces his daughter to attend the party in hopes of meeting Santa Claus. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) agrees to a snowball fight with Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), which he later regrets. Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) notices something scandalous about Angela Martin's (Angela Kinsey) new boyfriend.
The scenes that were filmed outdoors in Los Angeles had to be crafted to look as if it were cold; in reality, temperatures reached 90 °F (32 °C) and above. The snowmen used in the episode took a day to create and used over 100 tons of chipped ice. "Classy Christmas" was viewed by 7.18 million viewers and received a 3.7 rating among adults between the age of 18 and 49, marking a slight drop in the ratings when compared to the previous week. Despite this, the episode was the highest-rated NBC series on the night that it aired. It received largely positive reviews from critics.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) learns that Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) will be taking a leave of absence to go on jury duty for the Scranton Strangler trial, leading the corporate office to send Holly Flax (Amy Ryan) to cover for him. Michael forces Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) to plan a second, classier Christmas party for Holly's return to Scranton. Michael welcomes Holly back, but becomes upset when she tells him that she and A.J. (Rob Huebel) are still in a relationship. Holly then tells the women of the office that she's giving A.J. an ultimatum: either propose to her by year's end or their relationship is over. Michael lies to Holly and tells her that he's seeing a woman named Tara from New York, and Holly shows curiosity, but Michael interprets this as potential jealousy. When Michael gets further upset over hearing about Holly's relationship with A.J., he takes her toy Woody from Toy Story—a present from A.J.—throws it in the trash, and pours his coffee on it. When Holly uncovers this, she demands to know who did it, and Michael comes forward and admits that he still has feelings for her and is hurt that, while they had to break up due to their long distance, she is nevertheless able to make such an arrangement work with A.J. This, in turn, makes her feel bad for Michael. A.J. arrives in Scranton to surprise Holly and Michael welcomes him politely. After cleaning Holly's Woody, he leaves the office and Pam follows him out, where he breaks down. In order to lift his spirits, Pam tells him about Holly's ultimatum, suggesting their relationship is not going to last very long. He returns to the party where he overhears Holly and A.J. talking about Woody, with Holly fabricating a story to cover for Michael's actions.
Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) is upset that his daughter Jada would rather spend Christmas with her mother than him. At the party, Jada begins to lose interest, but Pam and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) try to find fun activities for her; however, Andy ends up ruining most of them, specifically by setting up a trivia contest instead of a scavenger hunt. Darryl then takes her to the break room, where she is impressed with the snacks in the vending machines. They take out the snacks and hand them to employees. When she hands one to Michael, he decides to dress up as Santa again so she can tell him what she wants for Christmas as Holly looks on with admiration. Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) invites her new boyfriend Robert Lipton (Jack Coleman), a charming State Senator, to the party, however Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) believes that Robert is secretly gay, when Robert takes keen interest upon meeting him, and when Oscar later notices him discreetly checking out Ryan Howard's (B. J. Novak) backside.
Pam says that her husband Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) always makes her great Christmas gifts so she wants to make him one too. She creates a hand-drawn comic book about Jim who gets attacked by a radioactive bear and takes its powers. She asks for others' opinions before giving it to Jim, but most of them give her harsh critiques. Jim gives Pam a beautiful bracelet and despite her hesitation Jim is amazed and touched by the comic book she gives him. Jim and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) agree to a snowball fight after Jim throws a snowball at Dwight indoors. When he is first challenged outside, however, he finds the doors chained. Dwight then emerges from a snowman, throwing multiple snowballs at Jim and leaving him with a bloody nose. Throughout the day, Dwight torments Jim with increasingly elaborate snowball ambushes, some of which involve Dwight disguising himself as Pam (he explains that he has a wig for every person in the office) and making a spring-loaded trap present. Jim tries to surrender, but Dwight refuses. At the end of the day, Jim is too afraid to go outside. He and Pam find multiple snowmen, and Jim attacks them all hoping to find Dwight. Dwight, however, is on the roof of the building, watching Jim with a satisfied look on his face. He claims that the greatest snowball in a snowball fight is fear, and smilingly wishes the camera "Merry Christmas".
The episode was written by co-executive producer Mindy Kaling, her eighteenth writing credit for the series.[2] Rainn Wilson, who portrays Dwight Schrute on the series, directed the episode, his second directing credit of the series after the sixth-season episode "The Cover-Up".[2][3] The episode was also the first of several season seven episodes that saw the return of Amy Ryan as Holly.[4] Kaling purposely made Dwight "complicated" and "mean" in the script; she wanted to avoid a situation wherein Jim and Dwight become best friends, calling it something that would happen in a "crappy sitcom feel-good formula."[2] She wanted to stress the fact that "Jim [and Dwight] are not friends."[2] Kaling specifically wrote Jim to be "off-guard [and] surprised" in the episode, because she reasoned that "perfect isn't always nearly as fun to play or watch as flawed."[2] The episode was filmed in early November and was shot out of order. This required the assistant directors of The Office to re-dress "the sets from white, spare 'classy Christmas' look to the elaborate, colorful 'regular Christmas look.'"[2]
According to Kaling, the group had to pretend like it was cold during the outdoor scenes when it was actually warm. The snow that was used for the snowballs was artificial, and did not cooperate well. According to Kaling, the snowballs would "'explode' before they made contact".[2] While Krasinski and Wilson did not hold back during the fights, neither one was injured; the blood on Jim's face and shirt was artificial. The snowmen featured at the end of the episode took a day to construct. In addition, the artificial snow had to be maintained, and footprints had to "be tracked constantly" to maintain continuity.[2] The snowmen were crafted out of 100 tons of chipped ice, and the show's special effects team created molds and hand-crafted the creations. The scenes featuring the snowmen were shot on the hottest day of the episode's shoot in Los Angeles, with temperatures reaching above 90 degrees Fahrenheit. The entire crew was outfitted UV-protectant glasses because "snow-blindness was a real possibility."[2] To prevent heat-related injuries, an on-set medic monitored the staff and crew; anyone who was slated to appear outside was "slathered in sunscreen" and kept inside until "moments" before each shot.[2]
The Season Seven DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include more scenes of Kelly giving out the Sabre gifts, extended scenes of Toby discussing the Scranton Strangler trial, Jim asking Erin for the first aid kit, and Pam talking about Holly's ultimatum.[5]
Michael claims that, to a person from New Hampshire, a fake tree is the same as a burning cross.[6] Darryl mentions that he has a fondness for the Nickelodeon series iCarly, specifically complimenting the voice of Freddie Benson, played by Nathan Kress. A line that was cut from the scene features Darryl harshly criticizing the Disney Channel series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody. The gifts that Kelly decides to give to her staff members on Corporate's behalf are laptop sleeves, featuring the popular fictional character Hello Kitty, which is produced by the Japanese company Sanrio.[2] Holly's gift from A.J. is a replica of Woody from Toy Story, the 1995 animated Disney & Pixar film about friendly toys coming to life when no one is around. When Michael claims he heard Holly would be single, he blames "Nora Ephron and every romantic comedy ever".[6] Andy disguises himself as the Grinch and steals the Christmas tree's star for the sake of Jada's entertainment.[6]
"Classy Christmas" first aired on December 9, 2010.[7] The episode received 3.7/10 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49 according to Nielsen ratings. This means that 3.7 percent of all households with an 18- to 49-year-old living in it watched the episode, and ten percent had their televisions tuned to the channel at any point. The episode was watched by 7.18 million viewers, dropping in viewers from the previous week, although ratings were adjusted down due to a local NFL game broadcast in Indianapolis and Nashville.[8] Despite this, the episode was the highest-rated NBC series of the night that it aired.[8]
This episode received mostly positive reviews. James Poniewozik of Time magazine said, "'Classy Christmas' may not have been one of the show's most hilarious episodes ever, but it did recall the best era of the show, when it was able to deliver with storylines that were as much drama as comedy."[9] He also said that "it was an initially good payment".[9] TV Fanatic's Dan Forcella said that "Classy Christmas" was an enjoyable episode and "watching Jim suffer as Dwight jumped out of a snowman and pummeled him with snow ball after snow ball was absolutely hilarious."[10] Despite this, he also said it was not as good as the second season episode "Christmas Party".[10] IGN writer Matt Fowler named it the third best Christmas episode of the series calling it a "good episode, with a sweet ending".[11]
Alan Sepinwall of HitFix called the episode "another standout holiday episode", and applauded the return of Holly, calling her "welcome".[12] He enjoyed the episode largely because it was full of "darkness"; he noted that "I like when The Office aims for something non-comic, so long as it takes its characters seriously, which it did here."[12] Sepinwall also complimented the subplot featuring Jim being terrorized by Dwight, applauding both Kaling's writing and Wilson's directing.[12] Bonnie Stiernberg of Paste magazine argued that the reappearance of Holly—a signal that Steve Carell's exit was approaching—"gifted [the viewers] with some of the show's best writing in a long time."[13]
Myles McNutt of The A.V. Club gave it a slightly more critical review, awarded it a "B". He compared the episode the third season episode "A Benihana Christmas", writing that "both deal with Michael’s heart being broken and the somewhat self-destructive ways he deals with it."[14] However, he felt that the episode "struggles greatly if you have no emotional connection to Holly and Michael" because it "isn't funny, by any real stretch of the term, nor is it really intended to be funny."[14] He went on to say "I like episodes like this one in general and don't necessarily need the show to make me laugh, but I would say that I wanted this hour to be slightly more... pleasant."[14]


"The Dundies" is the first episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's seventh episode overall. Written by Mindy Kaling and directed by Greg Daniels, who is also a producer for the show, the episode originally aired in the United States on September 20, 2005 on NBC.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) hosts "The Dundies", the annual awards show in which he presents awards to various members of the office.  But the night does not turn out as he plans, and Michael ends up angering or humiliating the majority of the office staff. Meanwhile, after Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) argues with her fiancé, she becomes obviously intoxicated and kisses Jim Halpert (John Krasinski).
"The Dundies" was the second episode of the series directed by Greg Daniels. Many of the scenes at the Chili's had to be changed so the restaurant would allow filming, most notably the scenes where Pam falls over. "The Dundies" was viewed by an estimated 9.0 million viewers and received a 4.3/10 rating share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, making it the highest episode of the series since the show's pilot. The episode received positive reviews from critics.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is the only person who looks forward to "The Dundies", his annual awards show at the local Chili's restaurant. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) tries to dissuade Michael from once again awarding Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) the "World's Longest Engagement" award. Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) learns that there is graffiti about Michael on the ladies' room wall (later revealed to have been written by Pam), and his attempts to investigate are embarrassingly unsuccessful.
At the awards show, Michael's performance as MC falls flat. Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) is embarrassed when Michael awards him "Hottest in the Office". Pam's fiancé Roy Anderson (David Denman) and Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) leave, taking Pam with them. In the parking lot, Roy and Pam argue, and Pam returns alone to the restaurant, where she begins drinking beer and margaritas. Heckled by other customers, Michael decides to end the show, but an intoxicated Pam leads the office in encouraging him to continue. Relieved upon winning the Dundie for "Whitest Sneakers" (as opposed to a demeaning and sexual award), Pam gives a drunken acceptance speech and kisses Jim on the lips.  This leaves Jim surprised, but happy.
As Jim recaps the Dundies for the camera, Pam stares at Jim with dazed fascination and then falls off her stool, and Dwight springs to her rescue, thinking Pam is having a seizure.  He then tries to take off his dress shirt and tie, but a Chili's employee stops him. The employee then talks to the camera and says that Pam apparently was sneaking drinks off of others' tables, which is against the restaurant's rules.  He then tells the audience that he Xeroxed her driver's license and she is never welcome at Chili's again.[nb 1] After the party is over, Pam runs to the camera and screams "I would just like to say that this was the best Dundies ever! Whoo!". In the parking lot, Pam admits to Jim that it was she who wrote the graffiti. She begins to ask Jim a question, but stops when she notices the camera. Jim helps Pam into Angela Martin's (Angela Kinsey) car and smiles as they leave.
"The Dundies" was the second episode of the series directed by Greg Daniels. Daniels had previously directed the first season episode "Basketball". "The Dundies" was written by Mindy Kaling, who also acts for the show as customer service representative Kelly Kapoor.[4] According to Daniels, while he worked on the Fox animated series King of the Hill, the show would have an annual Dundies-type event called the "Swampy Awards".[5][6] He previously considered using the plot from this episode for the pilot, but decided it was a "very risky thing to do" and decided to make the pilot a direct adaption of the first episode of the British version.[6][7] Following the mixed reaction towards the first season, the writers attempted to make the series more "optimistic" and make Michael more likable.[8] They also began fleshing out the supporting characters of the series more by giving them actual personalities. Finally, to further differentiate the series from its British inspiration, the producers made the lights in the office brighter.[8]
The episode was filmed at a former Chili's in the San Fernando Valley, in the city of Panorama City, California, on the corner of Roscoe Blvd. and Tobias Ave, across the street from Panorama Mall. 
The episode was filmed "from dawn, until very late at night", according to Kaling.[9] During filming breaks, Kaling explained that she took "ladylike" naps while Paul Lieberstein made notes on the episode and its script.[9] While filming, many parts of the script were changed so the restaurant would allow the shoot to continue. For instance, in the original script, Pam vomits at Chili's and Dwight responds, "A woman has vomited!" Because the completed script was not available for Chili's to review until shooting had already started, when they were finally given a chance to read it, they objected to a customer vomiting in their restaurant. Chili's withdrew its permission to shoot, but, after a few hours, Steve Carell developed a compromise: Pam would fall off her bar stool and Dwight would respond, "A woman has had a seizure!"[10] In the original version, Pam was also to be over-served alcohol by the Chili's staff, but Chili's—feeling that this would reflect poorly on their character as a company—did not want this in the episode either. To solve this issue, the writers had Pam steal drinks off other tables.[10] The writers and producers also agreed to include a scene in which a Chili's manager (played by actor Christopher T. Wood) makes it clear that the restaurant does not over-serve alcohol to its customers.  Since Jenna Fischer does not drink much in real life, B. J. Novak took her out so she could get drunk while Novak described to her how she was behaving and how it did not match her own perception. She drew upon this experience for her performance.[11]
Michael calls Jim "Fat Halpert", using a voice reminiscent of the cartoon character Fat Albert. During the "Last Year's Dundies" video, Michael awards Oscar the "Show Me the Money" award, a reference to the 1996 movie Jerry Maguire. Dwight later plays a recorder version of Lou Bega's 1999 cover of "Mambo No. 5" while Michael sings parody lyrics. During a phone call, Jan makes reference to a "tsunami relief fundraiser which somehow lost a lot of money."[12] Michael defends his actions, noting that it was a "fun-raiser", in an attempt to raise the morale of the people in the office following the events of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami. Michael's psychic act is a blatant rip-off of Johnny Carson's Carnac the Magnificent act.[12]
At the Dundies party Michael sings various song parodies, including spoofs of Naughty by Nature's 1991 hit "O.P.P." ("You Down with the Dundies") and Elton John's 1971 hit "Tiny Dancer" ("You Have Won a Tiny Dundie"). He also sings Hot Chocolate's 1975 single "You Sexy Thing" while presenting the "Hottest in the Office" award.[12] Originally, a parody of Eminem's 2002 hit "Lose Yourself" was slated to be featured in the episode, but was axed when Eminem refused to allow permission.[6][8] In the background of one scene, Michael is seen singing the 1987 song "(I've Had) The Time of My Life", by Bill Medley and Jennifer Warnes. The final scene in the episode features "Tiny Dancer" playing over the actual footage of the show.[12]
"The Dundies" originally aired on NBC in the United States on September 20, 2005.[4] In its original American broadcast, the episode received a 4.3/10% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 2.4% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode was seen by 9.0 million viewers, making it the highest-rated episode of the series since the show's pilot episode.[13]
"The Dundies" represented a turning point in the series, in which the show found its own tone and differentiated itself from the British version.[14][15] It received critical acclaim, unlike the first season. In its "The Top 10 Moments from The Office", IGN ranked Pam's drunken scene at Chili's as number five.[16] Michael Sciannamea of TV Squad stated that "This season's first episode showed a marked improvement over the final episode from last season", and went on to praise the episode's expansion of supporting characters as one of the main reasons for the improvement.[15] In a Flashback review, Travis Fickett of IGN complimented the episode for creating the personalities of the supporting characters and for the workers affection towards Michael in the episode.[14] He also praised the Jim and Pam moments in the episode.[14] He ultimately gave the episode a 9.0/10.[14] Seb Patrick of Noise to Signal, while comparing the American version of The Office favorably to its UK counterpart, writes that the series "could be finding its feet again over the course of its opening couple of episodes."[17]
Jacob Clifton from Television Without Pity gave the episode an A rating.[12] Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B". Part of his review focused on the scene wherein Pam and Jim both convince Michael to continue on with the Dundies celebration, writing that "they’re clapping and chanting for Michael Scott, human being, and that’s incredibly important for the episodes that will follow".[18] However, he felt that the episode's reputation was slightly inflated by its success, and that the episode, while good, is merely just a start for the success that would follow it.[18]



"The Meeting" is the second episode of the sixth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 102nd overall episode of the series. It originally aired on NBC in the United States and simultaneously on CTV in Canada on September 24, 2009.
In the episode, Michael plots to sabotage Jim's plans after Jim and David Wallace have a secret meeting without him. In the end, Jim is promoted to co-manager. Meanwhile, Dwight and Toby become suspicious of an injury Darryl supposedly got at work, and Pam tries to get RSVPs from the office for her wedding to Jim.
The episode was written by Aaron Shure and directed by Randall Einhorn. According to Nielsen ratings, "The Meeting" was seen by 7.33 million U.S. households during its original broadcast, a drop from the previous week's season premiere episode, "Gossip". The episode received mixed reviews, with some commentators claiming it focused too much on plot development rather than humor.[1][2][3]
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) becomes nervous when Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) has a private meeting with CFO David Wallace (Andy Buckley). He constantly tries to intrude into the meeting, finally sneaking into the meeting room in a cheese cart made by Andy Bernard (Ed Helms). David asks to see Michael after finishing up with Jim, and hints that he is thinking of having Jim promoted to regional manager. Michael, not wanting to lose his position, derides Jim's management potential and shows David his personnel file (which, thanks in part to Toby's unrequited affection for Jim's fiancé Pam, is full of comments on how much Jim slacks off). However, David mentions that Jim suggested that, in addition to his own promotion, Michael also be promoted to oversee all Northeast sales, but if Michael would not take the promotion, then Jim would accept a job offer somewhere else. David asks Jim to walk him to his car, where he tells him that he has changed his mind without explaining why. Michael, watching from his window, notices a downtrodden Jim and says to the camera that he feels "partially responsible".
Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), wearing a green football jersey, tells Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) he fell off a ladder in the warehouse trying to reach an item and broke his leg when the ladder fell on him, and he wants to put in a claim for workers' comp. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) overhears him and persuades Toby that Darryl's story is suspicious. They go to the warehouse to see where it happened, and see that the ladder he would have used is too short to reach the top shelf. Toby still isn't totally convinced that Darryl is lying, but being a fan of hardboiled detective fiction, he joins Dwight in staking out Darryl's house. There they spot someone wearing a green football jersey carrying a big bag of dog food without crutches. Thinking that person is Darryl, Toby shouts an obscenity at him, but they see that the person is not Darryl and the real Darryl comes out, still on crutches. They flee the scene, crashing into Darryl's trashcans. Back at the office Darryl threatens to file complaints on both of them for yelling at his sister.
Later, Dwight and Toby head to the warehouse to apologize. There Dwight sees that employees are misusing a lift as an elevator and a railing at the top of the stairs was replaced, and deduces that Darryl injured himself on the lift and made up the ladder story since he would not receive workers' comp for an injury incurred through misuse of equipment. Darryl admits this, and says if they report him for his falsified complaint, he will retaliate by filing a complaint for sexual harassment against his sister. Dwight is not swayed by the threat, and Toby tries to convince them to make peace. Later, Toby, with a bruised forehead, explains that the three of them "worked it out" that Darryl and Dwight would both file complaints against each other and Toby would do all the paperwork.
Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) tells the camera that she and Jim deliberately scheduled their wedding for a weekend in Niagara Falls so their co-workers wouldn't be able to attend, but then relates unhappily that Michael unilaterally announced the office will be closed on the Monday and Tuesday after the wedding date. Pam's next plan is to try and use passive-aggressive "you can skip our wedding if you want (hint)" to get the staffers to not attend, but this also fails: Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) says she will only go if Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) goes, and Ryan says he will go so Pam checks off both Ryan and Kelly. Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) asks Pam to send her directions via text message on the morning of the wedding, and says she wants the fanciest meal there, unless there are ribs. Pam finally resigns herself to having her co-workers attend.
Jim tells Michael that he suspects he talked David out of giving him the promotion. Michael denies this, so Jim pressures him to call David back and switches the phone to speaker mode as soon as David picks up. The ensuing conversation confirms Jim's suspicions, and he becomes upset that Michael sabotaged him. When Michael tries to apologize, David calls Michael back and proposes that Michael and Jim be co-managers of the Scranton branch, with Michael handling clients and Jim handling day-to-day operations. Michael and Jim accept the offer and announce it to the rest of the office. Dwight is shown screaming in anger and astonishment.
"The Meeting" was written by Aaron Shure and directed by Randall Einhorn. The episode included the promotion that established Jim as co-manager of the office along with Michael, which for a brief time drastically changed the hierarchy of the office.[4]
Michael said he would have to discuss a possible promotion with his consultant from H&R Block, a tax preparation company.[4] During an evaluation of Jim's work performance, Michael compares Jim to Big Bird, a character from the hit PBS children's show, Sesame Street.[5] While discussing Darryl's suspicious injury, Dwight says they are not living in Sweden, which he incorrectly describes as a communist country. In response, Darryl says the injury would not be a problem there due to Sweden's universal healthcare.[3] When Pam asks Ryan about coming to the wedding, Ryan can be seen reading the 2006 Tucker Max book, I Hope They Serve Beer in Hell.[6]
In its original American broadcast on September 24, 2009, "The Meeting" was seen by 7.33 million viewers. It received a 3.8 rating/10 share among viewers aged between 18 and 49.[7] It marked an almost 800,000-viewer drop from the previous week's premiere episode, "Gossip", which itself was seen by 18 percent less viewers than the fifth-season premiere.[8] "The Meeting" received generally mixed reviews, with some commentators claiming it focused too much on plot development rather than humor.[1][2][3]
Entertainment Weekly writer Darren Franich called the episode "an instant classic". Franich said he was excited about the new co-manager plotline, and he particularly praised the cold open between Michael and Oscar, as well as the comedic chemistry between Dwight and Toby.[9] Tara Tanzos of The Express-Times said she was interested to see where the co-manager plot development went in future episodes. She particularly praised the scene in which Michael spies on Jim and Wallace from underneath the cheese cart.[5] Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club said "The Meeting" advanced the show's overall plot drastically with the Michael and Jim co-manager plot, but not at the expense of humor. He particularly praised the pairing of Dwight and Toby, the look of Darryl's sister and Dwight's scream of rage at the end of the episode.[10]
North by Northwestern writer Sarah Collins said the co-manager and wedding preparation stories were dull, despite advancing the show's plot. However, she said the Dwight and Toby subplot provided most of the episode's "high moments", and said Darryl's sister added more dimension to his character.[1] Dan Phillips of IGN said the episode was high on plot summary but low on laughs, which he said felt like a step back after an excellent sixth-season premiere. Phillips said the biggest laughs came from the "outrageous cold opening".[2] Yvonne Villarreal of the Los Angeles Times called "The Meeting" a lackluster episode. She said it was more low-key than recent episodes, and that "when the office antics go on the back burner, so do the laughs".[4] Caitlin Fairchild of The Flat Hat said the episode was "not that funny", mainly because of the focus on "actual plot developments rather than ridiculous antics".[3]


"Grief Counseling" is the fourth episode of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 32nd overall. The episode was written by co-executive producer Jennifer Celotta and directed by Roger Nygard, making it Nygard's only series credit. It first aired on NBC in the United States on October 12, 2006.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is overcome with grief when he learns about the death of his former boss Ed Truck. Michael spends the rest of the day attempting grief counseling for the mostly grief-lacking office. Meanwhile, in Stamford Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) embark on a quest for a particular brand of potato chips.
The outdoor scenes were filmed during the summer, although the cast had to pretend like it was in the middle of winter; this included wearing coats. "Grief Counseling" earned a Nielsen rating of 4.1 with an 11 percent share in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic and was watched by 8.83 million viewers. The episode was viewed favorably by most television critics; Pam's pranks and the bird funeral were a particular source of praise, as was Michael's monologue on the five stages of grief.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is informed by Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) that his former boss Ed Truck has died. Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) and Phyllis Lapin (Phyllis Smith) console Michael after he breaks the news to a mostly unmoved staff.  Later, Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) tells Michael that Truck, heavily inebriated, was decapitated in a truck accident while speeding drunk on U.S. Route 6. Michael summons the staff to a primitive grief counseling session involving a collapsible Hoberman sphere ball, in which Michael tells members of the staff to give stories of deceased love ones. This leads to the staff telling stories about losing loved ones based on death scenes in movies (Million Dollar Baby, The Lion King, and Weekend at Bernie's) with Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) saying he would elaborate more on his story, but it would take about an hour and a half to do it.
Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) tells Michael death is a part of life, and uses an example of a bird that flew into a first-floor window that morning. Michael charges outside, picks up the deceased animal and tries in vain to revive it.  Michael schedules a parking lot funeral for the bird. Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) fashions a makeshift coffin and reads a prepared speech that comforts Michael. Pam then proceeds to sing "On the Wings of Love" as Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) accompanies her on his recorder. The coffin is placed in a box of shredded paper and set afire.
Meanwhile, in Stamford, Connecticut, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) gains authority over Karen Filippelli's (Rashida Jones) schedule for the day. When Karen mentions her favorite kind of Herr's potato chips is missing from the vending machine, Jim tells Karen that they cannot work until they find her chips.  The duo spends the rest of the day searching stores and vending machines around town in a vain attempt to find the chips. But at the end of the day, Karen finds a bag of Herr's on her desk. Jim tells the documentary crew that he traced the chips from the manufacturer to the distributor to the vending machine company to an adjacent office building.
"Grief Counseling" was written by co-executive producer Jennifer Celotta, and was directed by Roger Nygard, his only episode of The Office to date.[1] In a later interview with Den of Geek, Nygard found that "television episodes are the domain of the writer-producers. You are there to service their vision. The Office is fully scripted, but there's always a little room to play when it's warranted. The first cuts are around 45 minutes, so you often have to cut the episodes in half for air."[2] Though "Grief Counseling" broadcast before the fifth episode, "Initiation", its filming took place after that episode due to the availability of shooting on Dwight's fictional beet farm.[3]
The episode's plot involved the death of former boss Ed Truck, a character who had been played by Ken Howard in the second-season episode "The Carpet". As part of the episode took place outdoors, the cast had to wear coats despite the hot summer weather. Actress Kate Flannery commented in a weekly blog she wrote for TV Guide that "we suffered while shooting the outdoor scenes... We had to act like it was cold when it was warm. For hours and hours. You would never know it by looking at us. Isn't that crazy?"[4] Flannery also wrote, "I love this episode because it's dark, for a comedy. This time The Office tackles gutsy subject matter."[4] In her memoir Is Everyone Hanging Out Without Me?, Mindy Kaling wrote that the episode resulted in the worst disagreement she ever had during her years on the show, where she and Greg Daniels, normally a "very nice" person, disagreed on a story point to the extent that Daniels told her that if "you [were] going to resist what I'm doing here, you can just go home." Kaling briefly left the set before returning, with no further problems or repercussions noted.[5]
Deleted scenes of the episode were released in the third season DVD. Such scenes included a coworker showing Jim photographs of her baby, Dwight telling everyone to delete their records of Ed Truck, Michael talking about a need for a grief counselor, Toby holding a grief counseling session for the office, and Roy telling Pam of the birth of a cousin's twins.[6]
"Grief Counseling" first aired on October 12, 2006 on NBC in the United States. It received a Nielsen rating of 4.1/11. This means that it was seen by 4.1% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode was viewed by 8.83 million viewers and placed as the 24th most-watched episode for the week in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic.[7]
IGN columnist Brian Zoromski rated "Grief Counseling" 9.5/10, an indication of an "amazing" episode. Writing that the opening sequence "excellently set" the tone of the episode, he found a "ton of great moments", such as Michael's "totally awkward speeches on Ed Truck's death" and his conversation with Dwight over a robot statue.[8] Zoromski saved the most praise for Pam and her pranks, particularly her "completely ridiculous bird funeral... It was all so brilliantly over-the-top it becomes clear that the Scranton office will continue to be enjoyable to watch, as Pam takes over the mocking of the office all on her own, to a hilarious extreme."[8] AOL TV's Michael Sciannamea also lauded Pam and her pranks, especially highlighting her actions during the opening sequence and her song during the bird funeral. Sciannamea assumed that "she feels liberated from Roy (and Jim, to some extent) [and] is allowing her personality and sense of humor to come out even more."[9] He concluded that it was "another solid episode with Steve Carell at his best."[9]
Entertainment Weekly's Abby West expressed praise for an episode that "restored balance and order to our favorite paper-pushers while still nicely forwarding the storylines of TV's plainest super-non-couple."[10] West was also pleased "to have Michael back to his usual insanity", and wrote that Pam "was priceless tonight, from the spot-on reaction shots to the movie-plotlines-as-my-pain gag she started to the almost-believably tender eulogy she delivered for the singing, er, impressionist bird, complete with the most tricked-out pencil-case coffin you've ever seen."[10] Television Without Pity graded the episode with a B−.[11] Michael's monologue about the five stages of grief has also been isolated for praise; Michael Sciannamea called it "the best line of the night,"[9] and in 2011, IGN's Cindy White selected it as one of the series' best.[12]


"The Banker" is the fourteenth episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 114th episode overall. It aired on January 21, 2010.[2] It was written by Jason Kessler and directed by Jeffrey Blitz.
In this episode, an investment banker comes to the office to speak with HR rep Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein), since the company has recently been bought out. The episode is a clip show featuring montages of episodes past, as the banker asks about events in the office.
The episode "The Banker" received mixed reviews from critics and 3.7/9 in the 18–49 demographic.
When an investment banker, Eric Ward (David Costabile), comes to Dunder Mifflin Scranton to check for any discrepancies, Michael Scott (Steve Carell), Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) pull out all the stops in hopes of impressing him with their high-profile contacts. Michael — now the highest-ranking employee of Dunder-Mifflin, since all of Corporate in New York City have been removed — flagrantly lies to make the office look more "attractive," including pretending to have an AI assistant named Computron, replacing Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) with a more cheerful man, and having Dwight pretend to be the HR rep to keep Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) from telling him about the office's problems. Toby returns to speak with the banker, and he struggles to evade the fact-checker's questions. As they go over a list of potential liabilities, viewers are shown plenty of instances where the staff have destroyed property, engaged in dangerous activities and office romance, time wasting and conflict. It ends with clips where the office has come together as a family, including numerous moments in Jim and Pam's romance.
The episode was written by Jason Kessler and directed by Jeffrey Blitz, who directed five previous episodes of the series, including "Stress Relief".  "The Banker", although shown in smaller portions, is the only clip show of the series.
In its original American broadcast, "The Banker" was viewed by an estimated 7.29 million households, with a 3.7 rating/9 share in the 18–49 demographic falling 12% from the last episode.[3]
Dan Phillips of IGN said the episode was "Passable" and gave it a 6.5/10 saying that "If you're a fan of the show, you'll no doubt find it at least somewhat charming and entertaining to re-watch many of the show's funnier moments in rapid succession. I know I did. In the end, though, the biggest shortcoming of 'The Banker' isn't simply that it's a cheap clip show, but that it's not even an inspired take on the clip show."[4] Steve Heisler of The A.V. Club gave the episode a C+ saying that "'The Banker' was hardly an episode at all, but rather a clip show. Why does The Office need a clip show now? Are ratings really that low? Perhaps after six seasons and amidst the most rock-solid Thursday comedy line-up in years, people have simply forgotten what's been happening in Scranton and needed a refresher. Whatever. I'll take an Office clip show over almost anything on CBS any day, even though I still think it's a cop-out. (See what I did there?)"[5]


"Christmas Party" is the tenth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's sixteenth episode overall.  It was written by Michael Schur and directed by Charles McDougall. It was first broadcast on December 6, 2005 on NBC. The episode guest stars David Koechner as Todd Packer.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, the office throws a Christmas party and plays Secret Santa. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), having put much effort into finding a gift for Pam (Jenna Fischer), becomes frustrated when Michael Scott (Steve Carell) makes everyone play "Yankee Swap", and an iPod that Michael bought for Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) becomes the hot object of the game.
The episode received positive reviews from television critics, with many applauding Michael's "Yankee Swap" scene. The episode was nominated for two Primetime Emmy awards, one for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series, and one for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series. "Christmas Party" earned a Nielsen rating of 4.3 in the 18–49 demographic, being viewed by 9.7 million viewers, making it, at the time of its airing, the highest-rated episode of the season.
The office staffers hold a "Secret Santa" gift exchange at their Christmas party. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) received Pam Beesly's (Jenna Fischer) name, and puts a great deal of effort into her gift (a teapot filled with some mementos and a personal letter from him to her). Michael Scott (Steve Carell) buys a $400 video iPod as his gift to Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), far exceeding the $20 limit. He is disappointed by the handmade oven glove he receives from Phyllis Lapin (Phyllis Smith) and insists on turning the exchange into a "Yankee Swap". This goes amiss as many of the gifts, such as a decorative name plate with Kelly Kapoor's (Mindy Kaling) name on it, are specific to the recipients. The staff competes for the iPod, and Pam opts to swap for it rather than keep Jim's gift.
Jim's present for Pam ends up with Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson). Jim tries to convince Dwight to do a post-swap with him, but Dwight refuses, saying he plans to use the teapot for nasal cleansing. Pam elects to trade the iPod for Jim's gift after her fiancé Roy tells her he was planning on getting her an iPod and has no other decent ideas for gifts, but to spare Jim's feelings she tells him she swapped out of appreciation for the effort he put into it. While she goes through the various aspects of her gift, Jim sneaks the letter for her into his pocket.
After ruining his staff's mood, Michael disobeys company policy by buying vodka for the party to compensate. Everyone ends up having a good time, with the exception of Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), who is furious over not receiving appreciation for her efforts toward arranging the party, as well as Kelly kissing Dwight, whom Angela is secretly dating. The party ends with a drunken Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) exposing herself to Michael, who takes a picture and then leaves.
"Christmas Party" was written by Michael Schur, who portrays Mose Schrute in the series. The episode was his third contribution after the first season entry "The Alliance" and second-season episode "Office Olympics".[2][3][4] B. J. Novak later noted that, compared to Schur's previous episode "The Alliance", the "driving force of the mayhem" in the episode is Michael's desire to make all of his workers "happy", rather than him being "a jerk".[5] The scene wherein Dwight plugs the Christmas tree in, only for the office to be underwhelmed by the dismal lights was based on a real moment Schur and his wife experienced during their first Christmas together.[6] Schur based the Christmas party sequences on a scene in Rushmore that happens after the main character does his Vietnam play. He noted that he wanted it to be "pastiche-y" and feature "small groups of people talking to each other".[6] Meredith flashing Michael was based on a real-life experience Greg Daniels's dad had at a former job; at the end of one particular Christmas party, there was a stain on the office couch, which he called an "inappropriate ending" for the party. Daniels's father kept pressuring him to make a Christmas episode of The Office, and so Daniels utilized this experience.[7]
Daniels was unsure as to what to call the Christmas exchange. He had heard the names "Nasty Christmas", "White Elephant", and "Yankee Swap" used to describe the game, and so he wrote all three into the script in order "to cover all regions of the country".[7] Schur created a list of who receives what gift in order to preserve continuity in the episode.[6] Gifts featured in the episode include Toby giving Angela a baby poster, Kelly getting Oscar a shower radio, Michael buying Ryan an iPod, Kevin buying a foot bath for himself, Creed giving Jim an old shirt, Oscar buying Creed a keychain, and Jim purchasing Pam a teapot.[6] The teapot was chosen because it needed to fit other gifts inside of it, as well as be something that Dwight could have a use for later on in the episode.[7] Fischer was allowed to pick the color of the teapot featured in the episode. She picked teal, due to it being her then-husband James Gunn's favorite color.[8] Jenna Fischer recalled that fans always ask her what Jim wrote in Pam's note. Fischer noted that John Krasinski wrote the note himself and that the contents are "a secret".[8]  Jim finally gives Pam the note in the penultimate ninth season episode "A.A.R.M."[9]  In a 2020 interview on the Office Ladies podcast, Jenna Fischer later revealed that the note contained a personal message from Krasinski to Fischer on what their time on the show meant to Krasinski.[10]
The writers for the show wanted Michael to "give a cool gift that the show's co-workers would later resent".[11] They eventually decided that he would buy an iPod for Ryan. Apple Inc. received over four minutes of publicity for the device, despite the fact that the company did not pay for the placement.[11] The poster that Toby gives to Angela was created by one of the show's prop workers. The two children in the poster were brought in from a talent agency. Naya Soto is the child pictured on the left.[12] Schur revealed in the commentary for the episode that Stanley bought Kelly her nameplate, Dwight's paintballs were intended for Phyllis, Meredith bought Dwight shot glasses, Ryan got Toby a book of short stories, Angela purchased Stanley a picture frame, and Pam drew Meredith a picture of the office.[6] Pam's picture was initially drawn by an on-staff artist. However, the producers felt that he was not able to capture Pam's "feminine side" and so several young female artists were asked to draw the building. One was eventually chosen, and the artists returned to draw Pam's doodles in the later episode "Boys and Girls".[8]
The episode was directed by Charles McDougall, his first credit for the series.[2] According to Kinsey, McDougal, in order to set the characters' moods, would start every scene by saying "everyone happy, Angela pissed!"[13] McDougal sought to bring movement to the Secret Santa scene, due to it being a largely stationary sequence.[8] The cold opening was shot four different times, and almost every time, the ceiling tile that Michael displaces with a tree "crashed through the ceiling and almost killed Steve Carell".[7] The scene wherein Angela starts crying when the Christmas party descends into chaos was based on a deleted scene from the earlier season two episode "The Fire", in which Angela starts crying during a talking head due to the stress of the situation.[6] The scenes featuring snow were created by a company that specialized in producing fake snow. Daniels was initially worried that the shots would look fake, but he was pleased with the final results.[7] According to Fischer, on the last day of shooting, the cast had a snowball fight—a scene that is included in the episode—which she called a "magic moment".[8]
In order to make her scenes more real Phyllis Smith forced herself to cry for "30 minutes" between takes. Many of the cast members asked her what was wrong, but Smith refused to speak to them, in order to stay in character.[8] The series' writers researched local Pennsylvania laws and discovered one that requires a liquor salesman must wear a tie. Thus, the show features a liquor store worker wearing a tie.[6] Several of the scenes were improvised on the spot. During the sequence in which Angela angrily throws Christmas bulbs at a wall, Angela Kinsey was unable to get them to break, so she decided to stomp on them.[8] Kate Flannery improvised her line about not drinking only during the week while she was filming her talking head.[12]
During the flashing scene, Carell told Flannery that he "wasn't staring at" her breasts, rather, he was looking at her clavicle. Despite what it appears on camera, Flannery was not completely topless, as she was wearing pasties. The scene was shot several times; Flannery admitted that the shooting was excruciating and it felt like they had been shooting the one scene for "14 hours".[12] To preserve Flannery's modesty, the series' monitors were shut off and the memory card for the digital camera was removed. Carell actually took pictures during the Christmas party shoot. All of the photos were released online.[8]
The Season Two DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Oscar and Creed moving a desk, Phyllis confiding to the camera that her new boyfriend is Bob Vance, Dwight comparing humans opening presents to bears, Kevin singing "Christmas in Hollis" by Run DMC, Angela scolding Kelly, and Michael explaining that Christmas is about seeing people envy the gifts that you give to others.[14]
"Christmas Party" originally aired on NBC in the United States on December 6, 2005.[15] The episode received a 4.3 rating/10 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[16] This means that it was seen by 3.9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode was ranked number one in adults, men, and women in the 18–23 demographic and number one in all key adult male demographics as well.[16] The episode was viewed by 9.7 million viewers, making it, at the time, the highest-rated episode of the season.[16] An encore presentation of the episode on December 28 received a 3.2 rating/8 percent share and was viewed by over 6.5 million viewers and was ranked number one in the adults 18–34 demographic.[17]
The episode received largely positive reviews from television critics. M. Giant of Television Without Pity gave the episode an "A" grade.[18] Matt Fowler of IGN named the episode the second-best Christmas special of the series, calling it "a classic full of holiday cheer" with "one of the best comedic experiences ever".[19] The Cincinnati Post named the episode, and specifically the scene where Michael makes the office play "Yankee Swap," one of the 2005 "Holiday Highlights".[20] In addition, the episode was nominated for two Primetime Emmy awards, one for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series, and one for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series.[21]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode an "A−", and applauded its vignette-style presentation, noting that this format "work[s] in the show’s favor".[22] He also applauded the characterization of Michael, writing that it allowed him to "indulge in some David Brent-like behavior without it coming off as a lackluster impression or a bad shade on the show."[22] Ultimately, he positively commented upon the fact that the episode started The Office's tradition of delivering usually strong Christmas-themed episodes.[22]
Several lines from the episode were met with critical praise. Fowler cited Michael's line apologizing for Jesus' birthday being "so lame" as the best in the episode.[19] TV Fanatic reviewed several of the quotes for the episode. The site ranked Kevin's admission that he got himself in Secret Santa, Dwight's declaration that "Yankee Swap" is like "Machiavelli meets Christmas", Michael's explanation about the true meaning of Christmas, and Michael's question about whether 15 bottles of vodka is enough "to get 20 people plastered", a five out of five.[23]

"The Negotiation" (originally titled "Labor Negotiation")[2] is the nineteenth episode of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's forty-seventh episode overall. The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Roy Anderson (David Denman) tries to attack Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) for kissing Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) on Casino Night, only to be pepper-sprayed by Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson). Jim repeatedly tries to thank Dwight for his actions, but each attempt is rejected. Meanwhile, with Roy fired, Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) asks for a raise and is astounded when he learns that this raise would cause him to be paid more than his boss, Michael Scott (Steve Carell).
"The Negotiation" first aired on April 5, 2007 on NBC as a longer, "super-sized" episode. It was written by Michael Schur and directed by Jeffrey Blitz, and featured the end of Roy's plot arc to win back Pam, his former fiancée. This also marked the end of Denman's recurring tenure on the show, though he made guest appearances in subsequent seasons. The episode also included the return of actor Ed Helms, who portrays Andy Bernard. The episode was first screened at Paleyfest in early 2007. According to Nielsen Media Research, it was viewed by an estimated audience of 6.7 million people and earned a 3.2/10 ratings share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode received generally positive reviews, with television critics in particular praising the Dwight–Angela storyline. Schur received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series, but lost to fellow Office writer Greg Daniels for his work on "Gay Witch Hunt".
Roy Anderson (David Denman) enters the office and tries to attack Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) for kissing Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), but Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) subdues him with pepper spray. The pepper spray fumes also incidentally affect himself and others. Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) and Michael Scott (Steve Carell) fire Roy, and a grateful Jim tries to show his appreciation to Dwight for saving him, but Dwight politely declines each gesture, believing he only acted in the line of duty and thus is undeserving of any special praise.
Pam apologizes to Jim that Roy attacked him but her assurance that her relationship with Roy is over for good is met with skepticism. Roy picks up his last paycheck, apologizes to Jim for threatening him during their previous encounter, and asks Pam to join him for coffee. Their meeting at a local diner is awkward and ends with their relationship over; they hug, and Pam wipes a tear from her face. Roy encourages Pam to pursue her feelings for Jim but she says she will not because he is still dating Karen. Roy says he does not understand Pam and leaves.
Throughout the day, Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) has been asking people from the office to tell her the tale of Dwight's heroics which arouses her. Believing themselves to be alone at the end of the day, the two kiss passionately. However, Jim sees them and decides that keeping their relationship secret will be his gift to Dwight to make things "even". Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) returns from anger management, and a vindictive Dwight subdues him with pepper spray. This prompts Toby to confiscate the rest of Dwight's arsenal hidden in his desk.
Meanwhile, Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) asks Michael for a 10 percent raise due to the extra workload resulting from Roy's termination. When he discovers that he can’t get a raise until Michael himself gets a raise, Darryl goads him into going to corporate to negotiate his own raise. Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) initially tries to keep their romantic relationship out of the negotiations but ultimately gives Michael the maximum 12 percent raise that was authorized despite his continued inability to negotiate properly.
Elsewhere, Toby becomes considerably annoyed with Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) and Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling)'s constant making out and arguing in the cubicle next to his.
"The Negotiation" was written by supervising producer Michael Schur and directed by Jeffrey Blitz.[3] It concluded a story arc featuring Roy Anderson's attempt to win back Pam, his former fiancée. Roy's portrayer, David Denman, reported he was "really grateful" that executive producer Greg Daniels allowed his character to develop, "where all of a sudden, he wasn't just a complete idiot but felt bad for being a bad boyfriend and wanted to try to get the girl back. It's so rare to have that on a television show, because so often everyone wants you to be the same character every week. It was quite refreshing creatively to get to do that."[4] Referring to Jim and Pam, Denman felt it was "inevitable that Romeo and Juliet had to get together" and end the series' love triangle.[4] "Otherwise," he explained, "it gets kind of tiring and old. I think it was the appropriate time [to leave], and I had such a great experience working with all those guys."[4] Denman also added that Daniels' decision stemmed from a desire to advance the Jim–Pam storyline "to the next stage," rather than having anything to do specifically with Denman himself.[4] Denman briefly returned in the series' fifth, seventh, and ninth seasons.[5]
Actress Kate Flannery, who plays Meredith Palmer, attributed her love of the episode to Craig Robinson, because the two shared an enjoyment of singing together ever since the first season episode "Basketball". She explained, "We sing on the set and in the hair and makeup trailer. We sound good together, but sometimes people are not in the mood to hear our amazing duets, mostly from the '80s."[6] Flannery believed that Robinson's performance in the episode was "very funny," as his character served as a "great foil for Michael Scott."[6] "The Negotiation" featured the return of character Andy Bernard, who had last been seen in the episode "The Return", as he was attending anger management classes. At the time "The Return" aired, no one was certain Helms would be returning,[7] but in early February, NBC confirmed Helms had been hired on as a series regular for the rest of the year.[8]
In early 2007, the first half of "The Negotiation" was screened before fans at Paleyfest, along with its preceding episode, "Cocktails". According to Eric Goldman of IGN, "the crowd reacted gleefully to watching the series in the group setting... laughing uproariously at the never ending stream of terrifically funny material."[2] Part of "The Negotiation" involved Michael Scott reading the English Wikipedia entry on negotiations for advice in his attempt to fend off Darryl's request for a pay raise. This scene triggered a plethora of activity around that particular article, as viewers added their own thoughts on the subject. It was ultimately placed into "semi-protection" mode by English Wikipedia administrators to discourage false information and vandalism among anonymous IP users. One hundred edits were added before the security protection was added.[9]
"The Negotiation" first aired on April 5, 2007 in the United States on NBC as a "super-sized" episode,[10] a term used by the network and media outlets to indicate an unusually long episode.[11][12] According to Nielsen Media Research, it was viewed by an estimated 6.7 million people and earned a 3.2/10 ratings share among adults aged 18 to 49, the highest of the night. This means that it was seen by 3.2 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[13]
The episode received generally positive reviews from television critics. IGN's Brian Zoromski rated "The Negotiation" 9.7 out of 10, an indication of an "amazing" episode. He opined that it "had something for everyone – uncomfortable moments, laugh-out-loud ridiculous situations, and scenes progressing various ongoing storylines."[10] Writing for AOL TV, Jay Black sympathized with Roy's actions but faulted the writers for "just treading water" with the Jim-Pam relationship. Though he called the episode a "let down", Black did find some episode highlights, such as Angela's "lusty" responses to Dwight's defense of Jim.[14] Television Without Pity graded the episode with an A.[15]
In her review for Give Me My Remote, Kath Skerry wrote that the episode "left me satisfied and smiling," (a reference to a line from the episode "Sexual Harassment") partly attributing this to Roy's attack as a "way to make a very heavy, not [so] funny moment hysterical."[16] She again expressed her dislike for Karen, but thought it "was a fun episode for my two favorite Dunder Mifflin couples: Ryan & Kelly and Dwight & Angela."[16] Entertainment Weekly columnist Abby West enjoyed the Dwight-Angela scenes, asserting that "some of the best moments on screen are when those two let their freak flags fly."[17] For his work on this episode, Michael Schur received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series, but lost to Greg Daniels for his work on "Gay Witch Hunt".[18]


"China" is the tenth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 136th episode overall. It originally aired on NBC on December 2, 2010. The episode was written by Halsted Sullivan and Warren Lieberstein, and directed by Charles McDougall. The episode guest stars Mark Proksch as Nate and Hugh Dane as Hank.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) reads an article about China growing as a global power and decides it must be stopped before it takes over the United States. Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) threatens to move the office into a new building after everyone complains about Dwight Schrute's (Rainn Wilson) lax building standards. Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) is sick of Andy Bernard's (Ed Helms) annoying text messages.
The episode received largely positive reviews from television critics, many of whom felt that the confrontation between Oscar and Michael was realistic and humorous. "China" was viewed by 7.31 million viewers and received a 3.7 rating among adults between the age of 18 and 49, marking a slight drop in the ratings when compared to the previous week. Despite this, the episode was the highest-rated NBC series of the night that it aired, as well as the highest-rated non-sports NBC broadcast for the week it aired.
While at the dentist, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) reads an article about China's growing global power, and he decides that China must be stopped before it takes over the United States. Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) tries to correct one of the statements, but when Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) checks the fact online, it turns out Michael's statement was correct. Everyone mocks Oscar for his mistake, as Oscar is usually the smartest one in the office, having built this reputation by often correcting his coworkers. Oscar invites Michael for a cup of coffee to discuss China in more detail, but the other employees realize that he is trying to reestablish himself as the office's intellectual heavyweight. Seeing an opportunity to give Oscar a taste of his own medicine, they start quizzing Michael on different facts about China, but he cannot answer, so Ryan gives him note cards to keep track. When Michael and Oscar have their conversation, Ryan, Erin, Jim, Andy, and Kelly also sit in to watch. Michael is eventually stumped and humiliated by Oscar, but counters by praising the United States' allowing people the freedom to have conversations such as theirs. Ryan, Erin, Jim, Andy and Kelly celebrate and agree with Michael as Oscar attempts to point out he still won the debate, much to his frustration. 
Everyone in the office complains about Dwight Schrute's (Rainn Wilson) building standards, such as half-plying toilet paper, adding motion sensors to the lights, and placing a roach billboard over the windows to the office. Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer), as office administrator, threatens to move everyone to a different building if nothing is done. She leaves and comes back with pictures of a newer office space and says they can move in three months. Dwight investigates and finds that the office building does not exist. When Dwight plays coy around Pam, she admits to Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) that she lied about the office building and that she is afraid of failing again after failing as an artist and a salesperson. Jim tries in vain to reassure her, and she breaks down in tears. Later Nate (Mark Proksch), Dwight's building assistant, discreetly gives Pam a book on the state building regulations. Pam shows Dwight that his policies are in violation of the laws written in the book, so Dwight puts everything back to normal. The camera crew confronts Dwight with footage showing that he overheard Pam's conversation with Jim and instructed Nate to give her the book on the building regulations. Dwight admits that he allowed her to win, but mocks the idea that he did so out of compassion.
Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) is sick of Andy Bernard's (Ed Helms) pointless text messages. After one text, Darryl tells Andy that he is one bad text away from being blocked, but Andy wagers that he is one good text from a high five, to which Darryl agrees. Andy eventually texts Darryl, telling him to come to the parking lot, where there are pigeons eating an ice cream cone. Darryl laughs and gives Andy a high five.
"China" was written by producers Halsted Sullivan and Warren Lieberstein, their fourth writing credit on the series.[2][3][4][5] Warren Lieberstein is the brother of Paul Lieberstein, who was the showrunner of the show at the time.[6] The entry was directed by Charles McDougall, his fifth directing credit on the series.[5][7][8][9][10] "China" is the third episode to feature Nate, played by YouTube star Mark Proksch. After the producers of The Office saw a series of prank videos that Proksch did under the name "Kenny Strasser", they hired him to become a recurring character.[11]
The Season Seven DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Michael talking more about his fear of China, Nate swapping an "energy-saving cord" for an "un-energy-saving cord", Dwight making fun of Pam's concerns, Pam discussing the new office space with Dwight, Jim criticizing Pam's plan to the camera, Erin talking about moving, and Michael furthering his argument with Oscar in the coffee shop.[12]
Michael is initially worked up about China after reading an article in Newsweek, an American weekly news magazine.[13] Michael notes that he was forced to read Newsweek in the waiting room at his dentist's office because some "kid had the magazine I wanted to read", hinting that the magazine Michael wanted to read was the children's magazine Highlights for Children.[14] Andy sends Darryl a text that only reads "Megan Fox", a reference to the actress. Creed notes that he understands, but cannot speak, pirate slang. Andy attempts to motivate Michael with a pep talk taken from the 1979 movie Rocky II.[13] During Michael and Oscar's discussion in the lobby of the office building, a copy of Call of Duty can be seen behind the counter. Fans have interpreted this as a reference to the third season episode "The Coup", which used the game as a plot device.[15]
In its original American broadcast on December 2, 2010, "China" was viewed by an estimated 7.31 million viewers and received a 3.7 rating/10 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 3.7 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a slight drop in the ratings after one week off due to Thanksgiving.[16] The episode became the highest-rated non-sports related NBC program for the original week it aired and also became the ninth most-watched show for the week of broadcast among adults aged 18–49.[17]
This episode received positive reviews. Phoebe Reilly of Vulture wrote highly of the episode and called it "the best of the season so far."[18] James Poniewoznik of Time compared the episode and the season at large to the later work of The Beatles; he noted that, "after becoming known for a string of ambitious" entries, they both "decide[d] to take a step backward stylistically".[19] For this reason, he enjoyed "China", and opined that "The China plot, which thankfully focused less on Michael's craziness than his (and his coworkers') relationship with Oscar, demonstrated how well-drawn the show has been even when it comes to its more peripheral characters."[19] He also said the episode was "vintage Office."[19]
Bonnie Stiernberg of Paste magazine wrote highly of the episode and called it "a half hour of heartwarming comedy".[14] She was particularly pleased with how Michael was able to overcome Oscar with pathos, and she enjoyed the episode's subplots.[14] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic praised the episode and awarded it five stars out of five. He wrote that "If my favorite thing for Jim to do is prank Dwight, my second favorite is when he backs Michael."[20] Furthermore, he wrote that "While this A story was filled with plenty of laughs, [...] Dwight's B story was absolutely murderous [and] all gold".[20] He also felt that the C plot was enjoyable, because "Andy is great in small doses".[20]
Myles McNutt of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B+" grade. He noted that The Office was not suited for political examination, because, as the show is grounded in reality, the concept of the office as "a microcosm for global politics is … uneven."[21] However, McNutt argued that because the show used the conceit of China as a "red herring [...] to introduce a story about Oscar as 'Actually,' and the gap between Michael’s rhetorical potential and his actual knowledge of just about any subject", the story "steps back and finds a small moment within [the larger] conflict."[21] McNutt also enjoyed the B-plot with Pam and Dwight, noting that the ending was "honestly quite sweet".[21]



"The Incentive" is the second episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 154th episode overall. It was written by showrunner Paul Lieberstein and directed by Charles McDougall. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on September 29, 2011.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, after Robert California (James Spader) challenges the Dunder Mifflin staffers to double their sales, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), taking matters into his own hands, creates an incentive program. Eventually, he promises to tattoo himself if the staff earn a certain number of points. Meanwhile, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) strikes up an unlikely friendship with Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey), both of whom are pregnant.
The episode introduces Sabre's Pyramid tablet, a device that serves as a parody of several tablet computers, specifically the Apple iPad. The device would be explored later on in the season. "The Incentive" received mixed reviews from critics with many mainly criticizing the episode for recycling stories. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was viewed by 6.7 million viewers and received a 3.5 rating/9 percent share among adult between the ages of 18 and 49, marking a drop in the ratings from the season premiere, "The List".
Robert California (James Spader) challenges office manager Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) to double sales after a rousing motivational speech. After Andy tries unsuccessfully to mine ideas from the office employees, he consults a book on management techniques and decides to try an incentives program. He presents a number of items catered to individual employees, which they can purchase with "points" earned by exceptional workplace performance. This idea garners mixed reactions from the employees, but when Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) jokingly asks Andy what prizes he will offer for inordinately large numbers of points, he offers to tattoo whatever his co-workers would like on his butt in exchange for 5,000 points, anticipating that nobody will be able to even come close to this number.
The entire staff agrees to pool their points towards Andy's butt tattoo, and the office suddenly becomes a hubbub of activity, with Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) even giving up his nap-time to make sales calls for Sabre's new Pyramid tablet. Andy calls the management book's author for advice to "demotivate" his employees but is hung up on. To Andy's great dismay, they earn 5,000 points by the end of the day. When Andy and the crew go to the tattoo parlor, Andy backs down and admits to Jim that he is not sure why Robert made him manager. Jim reassures Andy that he managed to pick up sales, and that no one in the office expects him to go through with the tattoo idea. Pepped up by Jim's talk, Andy enthusiastically agrees to getting the tattoo, which Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) changes, without telling Andy, to an image of a dog that has "Nard" written on it, a reference to Andy's nickname "Nard Dog." Upon seeing his completed tattoo in a mirror, Andy is pleased with the result. Robert then reveals to the cameras that he picked Andy because he is an uncomplicated choice which causes people to rally behind him, because "there's something about an underdog that really inspires the unexceptional."
Pam and Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) become walking buddies for their pregnancies at Angela's request, but after Angela says she's reported Pam to Social Services for drinking herbal tea out of coffee mugs while pregnant, a bothered Pam tells Angela they should stick to their pregnancies on their own from now on.
The episode was written by executive producer and showrunner Paul Lieberstein, who also portrays Toby Flenderson on the series, his 15th writing credit for the series. It was directed by Charles McDougall, the sixth episode he has directed for the series. The episode also featured guest star James Spader as CEO Robert California, his third appearance in the series.[3] He appeared in 15 episodes of the season, before leaving the show.[3] The subplot wherein California listens to Kevin's ideas was crafted to make the character "connect with his employees".[4]
The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Erin trying to comfort Andy by giving him a gift, Andy describing his low key management style, and Andy seeking more advice on which tie combination to wear.[5]
The episode marks the first appearance of Sabre's Pyramid tablet. The device serves as a parody of several tablet computers, specifically the Apple iPad.[6] B. J. Novak described the device as "really the worst piece of technology that you've ever seen."[7] The device was created by Paul Lieberstein, who originally envisioned that the device only had the rights to the 1993 film Coneheads.[8]
Upon its original American broadcast, "The Incentive" was viewed by an estimated 6.70 million viewers and received a 3.5 rating/9 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[9] This means that it was seen by 3.9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a 13-percent drop in the ratings from the previous episode, "The List".[10] Despite this, it ranked as the highest-rated NBC show on Thursday.[10] The episode ranked third in its timeslot beating Person of Interest which received a 2.7 rating/7 percent share in the 18–49 demographic and The Secret Circle which received a 1.0 rating/2 percent share, but was defeated by Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.6 rating/9 percent share and The X Factor which received a 3.9 rating/11 percent share.[10]
"The Incentive" received average reviews from critics with multiple critics criticizing the episode for recycling storylines. The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt noted that the episode "wasn't a trainwreck by any means", but he was disappointed by the fact that the episode recycled storylines from the early seasons of The Office.[11] He also criticized the series for low stakes writing that "While Andy's character might be reflecting on his management skills, and Pam and Angela might be pregnant, nothing about the eighth season" of the series suggested that the show would try anything other than what it had already established as the status quo.[11] He ultimately gave the episode a "C".[11]
M. Giant from Television Without Pity awarded the episode a "B−".[12] Cindy White from IGN gave the episode a mixed review, writing that it took a "step back" from the promise of the season premiere and resorted to "recycl[ing] familiar plot elements" for the sake of the plot.[13] She did, however, compliment the fact that Andy went through on his promise in the end.[13] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode three stars out of five and concluded that "allowing [Andy] to be the lead character of The Office is not off to a strong start."[14] Jonathan Teigland of Starpulse called the episode's dynamic "interesting" and stated that "The Incentive" ended on "a sweet note".[15]
The episode's cold opening received negative reviews from critics. White called it "dumb", and noted that the joke "became grating very quickly".[13] Teigland called the subplot "stale" and argued that it "[fell] a little flat".[15] McNutt was hoping that the cold opening would have attempted to explain Kevin's lower intelligence, instead of just using it as a crutch for a joke.[11]

"Office Olympics" is the third episode of the second season of the television series The Office and the show's ninth episode overall. It was written by Michael Schur and directed by Paul Feig. It originally aired on October 4, 2005 on NBC. The episode guest starred Nancy Carell, the real-life wife of series star Steve Carell, as Carol Stills.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) leave the office to buy a condo. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), along with Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), organizes office games and gets his co-workers to play them.
"Office Olympics" was inspired by The King of the Hill Office Olympics, which were created and run by members of the television show King of the Hill. After the episode aired, other "Office Olympics" were organized in actual offices across the country. The episode marks the first appearance of Mose, Dwight's Amish cousin, played by writer Mike Schur. Mose was based on an actual person, with the same name, on the UPN reality show Amish in the City. The episode contained several cultural references, with many alluding to the actual Olympic games. "Office Olympics" received largely positive reviews from critics. The episode earned a Nielsen rating of 3.9 in the 18–49 demographic and was viewed by 8.3 million viewers.
While Michael Scott (Steve Carell) leaves with Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) to sign closing papers for his new condominium, the staff fills out their expense reports. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) "dies" of boredom, and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) revives him by calling him to the reception desk and throwing objects into Dwight's coffee mug. Jim discovers that his co-workers have their own office games, such as Toby Flenderson's (Paul Lieberstein) "Dunderball", and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) and Oscar Martinez's (Oscar Nunez) "paper football flicking and hitting" game, "Hateball" (named because of Angela's dislike for the game). Jim and Pam organize the Games of the First Dunder Mifflin Olympiad, competing for hand-made medals constructed from yogurt lids and paper clips. Some of the games include Flonkerton, a game where people race with cartons of paper strapped to their feet, and seeing who can stuff the most M&M's into their mouth.
At the condominium signing, Michael discusses the deal with his realtor, Carol Stills (Nancy Carell). Dwight finds a variety of things wrong with the condominium, and, at the very end of the deal, Michael gets cold feet but relents when he learns that backing out of the deal will cost him a substantial amount of money. When Michael and Dwight return, the coffee cup race quickly dissolves, and the office returns to normal. Michael isolates himself in his office, still upset over the closure of his condo.
When Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) throws away his gold medal, Jim and Pam organize the "closing ceremonies", believing them important to the office staff. Michael is awarded a medal for closing on his condo, and the gesture appears to give him some reassurance of his decision. Michael feels touched by this and thanks everyone for the honor - a gesture that triggers his emotional tears during the closing scene of the episode.
"Office Olympics" was written by Michael Schur. This episode was the first episode of the series directed by Paul Feig.[2] Producer Greg Daniels said the idea for the actual Office Olympics stemmed from The King of the Hill Office Olympics, which were created and ran by Daniel's former assistant Tim Croston and the show's two production assistants at the time: Tony Gennaro and Seranie Manoogian. The games were held in the King of the Hill offices, where Daniels served as executive producer. Daniels later elaborated on the types of games they played, stating "Like, who’s going to get off the elevator first and races in chairs. The funny thing is then it became a TV episode and it has now gone full circle and I hear offices are doing it all over."[3] After the episode aired, other "Office Olympics" were organized in actual offices across the country. The Chicago Tribune organized an interview with a majority of The Office cast members who—in character—explained the rules to the various games.[4] The Yogurt Lid Medals reappear in the third season finale, "The Job": Receiving the lid and a note from Pam is the catalyst for Jim's decision between Pam and Karen.[5]
When choosing Michael's car for the episode, producer Kent Zbornak brought in pictures of various cars and had the writers choose which one they thought Michael would most likely own. The writers ended up choosing a Chrysler Sebring convertible, because according to B. J. Novak "we figured it's the showiest car that he could afford". While shooting the scene in Michael's car, cameraman Randall Einhorn accidentally broke the back window, which ended up costing $859 to replace.[6]
Writer Mike Schur made a cameo appearance in the episode, appearing in a photograph as Dwight's Amish cousin Mose. The idea for Schur to be Dwight's Amish cousin had been a joke among the writers since the first season. Mose was based on an actual participant, with the same name, on the UPN reality show Amish in the City.[7]
After telling Ryan he can take his pants off and run around the office, Michael makes a direct reference to the 1983 teen comedy-drama film Risky Business.[8] Dwight compares his friendship to Michael, using the analogy that Michael is "like Mozart, and I'm like... Mozart's friend. No. I'm like Butch Cassidy and Michael is like... Mozart."[9] When Michael asks Pam if she had his magazine subscriptions changed to his new address, he mentions Small Businessman, American Way, Maxim, Cracked, and the fictitious Fine Arts Aficionado Monthly. When touring his condo, Michael makes a Mr. Bill joke to the head of the condo association, whose name is Bill. The jokes are a reference to the clay figurine star of a parody of children's shows that was part of Saturday Night Live.[8]
Due to the nature of the episode, several explicit references are made to the Olympic Games. When Jim starts the Office Olympics by lighting the "Torch", he hums "Olympic Fanfare and Theme" by John Williams, one of the themes for the actual Olympic games. When the games are finished, the employees play a recording of "The Star-Spangled Banner".[8]
"Office Olympics" originally aired on NBC in the United States on October 4, 2005.[10] The episode was viewed by 8.3 million viewers and received a 3.9 rating/9% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 3.9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[11] An encore presentation of the episode, on April 25, 2006, received 1.8 rating/6% share and was viewed by over 4.3 million viewers.[12]
"Office Olympics" received mostly positive reviews. Michael Sciannamea of TV Squad wrote that "The Office has turned the corner into separating itself from the  British version." Sciannamea went on to say that "although Michael still garners the most attention, the other characters are beginning to break out." His only criticism of the episode was that "Dwight is too creepy", Sciannamea suggested that the writers "tone down his insanity a bit".[13] "Miss Alli" of Television Without Pity graded the episode with an "A−".[8] Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode an "A" and called it the show's "first truly classic episode", due to the added "verve" of both plots.[14] Adams praised the way the main story and Jim and Pam's stories were intercut with each other, so that both could play off of each other; he wrote that "Michael Schur’s a great writer, and Paul Feig knows how to let superb comedic performances flow from his actors, but the stitch-up job here makes the two halves of the episodes complementary when they could’ve rocketed in opposite directions and ripped 'Office Olympics' apart."[14]
Entertainment Weekly named Dwight's line comparing his relationship with Michael to Mozart and Butch Cassidy as one of "TV's funniest lines" for the week ending October 10, 2005.[9] When Pam tries to get Angela to play the games with her fellow employees, Angela cattily reveals that she plays a game called "Pam Pong", where she counts how many times Jim goes to talk to Pam at her reception desk.[8] Pop punk band Sweet Diss and the Comebacks later named one of their songs—a "[Pam] Beesly tribute"—after the game.[15]



"Shareholder Meeting" is the eleventh episode of the sixth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 111th episode overall. Written by Justin Spitzer and directed by Charles McDougall, it originally aired on NBC on November 19, 2009.
The series, presented in a mockumentary style, depicts the everyday lives of office employees at the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mufflin Paper Company. In this episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is invited to attend a shareholder meeting in New York City, and is shocked to learn the shareholders are upset with the company's management. In Scranton, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) struggles to keep order in Michael's absence, as his coworkers refuse to see him as their co-manager. The episode achieved a viewership of 7.39 during its initial airing in the United States.[1]
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is excited when he is invited by CEO Alan Brand (Alan Fudge) to be honored on stage at the Dunder Mifflin shareholder meeting in New York City. He brings Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), and Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) along for the ride in the limo that was sent. Oscar is upset that the company spent money on a limo when they are about to go bankrupt, and is further upset that they booked a huge conference room for the meeting. Andy suggests that Oscar bring up these grievances at the meeting, but Oscar refuses out of fear for losing his job. Dwight decides to stand in the line for the microphones so he can ask Michael a simple question to warm up, but gets stuck in the middle of a huge line when he attempts to move to a shorter one. When the meeting begins, the panel is met with jeers, which Michael did not expect. When the panel moves to take a break, the crowd's jeers increase as they protest that the panel has yet to offer any solutions to Dunder Mifflin's situation. Michael impulsively announces a 45-day plan to fix Dunder Mifflin, which is greeted with enthusiastic applause.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) has a hard time getting Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) to do work, as Ryan sees no point since the company is on the verge of closing. Later Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) decides to take a two-hour lunch break, where she gets drunk, and when Jim tries to stop her, she bluntly tells him that Michael always lets her take two-hour lunch breaks and that she does not have to listen to Jim since he cannot fire her. The rest of the office backs up Phyllis's assessment, and it becomes apparent that Ryan sent an email around the office regarding Jim's lack of authority over the office. Jim thinks that he needs to make an example of Ryan in front of everyone, but Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) does not think Jim is capable of doing so. Jim, after giving Ryan one last chance to do his work, gives him his own personal office space in the small closet in the kitchen, which lacks windows and possibly internet access so he will not bother anyone or become distracted. He presents this "honor" to Ryan in front of everyone, showing them he means business. A humiliated Ryan tries to apologize, but Jim puts him in the closet anyway.
In New York, a frustrated David Wallace (Andy Buckley) reveals to Michael that Dunder Mifflin's corporate leaders have no plan to get the company back on track. Michael is astounded by this but remains positive and calls Oscar into the hotel room for some suggestions. However, Oscar is visibly embarrassed and unwilling to criticize the management to their faces. Oscar instead compliments them, not repeating any of his earlier suggestions, and leaves. Michael follows and rebukes Oscar for backing down, but Oscar still refuses to help him. When Michael returns, he is further lambasted by the CEO and former U.S. Congressman Chris O'Keefe, who openly insults Michael. In his defense, Michael points out that he is the only person who seems to be making money for Dunder Mifflin and the only one offering any positive suggestions or plans, going so far as to return the former Congressman's insult. Enraged, O'Keefe, who is presiding over the meeting, takes away Michael's limo privileges. Michael then triumphantly sneaks away — with Dwight, Andy, and Oscar — back out into their limo and drives out of the city. As they leave, Michael justifies his actions by saying that of everyone there, he and his team are the only ones who deserve to celebrate with limo rides. As they leave, the camera catches a glance at the stock market ticker, where the Dunder Mifflin (DMI) stock price, currently at $1.13, down 6 7/8, continues to drop dramatically. An ending scene reveals that, when Dwight reached the end of the line, he complained that the state of the line is indicative of the company's poor management. However, he only offers suggestions about how to improve the line, swiftly ending his turn.
New York outdoor scenes for the episode were filmed in California. Two taxi cabs along with Michael's limo, using New York plates, were shot in front of a California intersection with a Roman Revival style building in the background for a New York effect. The building has both a California state flag and US flag hanging over its entrance.
The cold opening for the episode deals with Dwight and his fictional Earth Day super hero "Recyclops". During Jim's narrative, he discusses the history of Recyclops, and a montage of Dwight harassing past receptionists was shown. The receptionists that Dwight harasses include: Pam, who is accompanied by Jim, circa 2006; Ryan; Ronni (Dale Raoul), who was introduced during the fifth season episode "Weight Loss"; and Erin. These clips were created to look as if they had been filmed in the past and were only then being used.[2] This was not the only time this technique was used in the series. During the seventh season episode "Threat Level Midnight", there is a short sequence that was shot to look as if it had been filmed during the show's second season, although the scene itself was filmed in 2011.[3] Furthermore, during the season nine episode "Customer Loyalty", the cold opening features a montage of Jim setting up a prank—which involves sending Dwight on a quest for the Holy Grail that heavily suggested that Jim set up the prank sometime during 2006, which would have taken place during the show's second season.[4] Appropriately, the montage was filmed to look as if the documentarians were using archival footage of Jim; his hair matches the style that Jim had during the first few seasons of the show.[4][5]
This episode was watched by 7.39 million viewers, with a 3.7 rating and a 10 share in the 18–49 demographic.[6]
"Shareholder Meeting" received positive reviews. Dan Phillips of IGN called the episode "funny from beginning to end", particularly praising the scenes between Michael and the board. Phillips also enjoyed the subplot between Jim and Ryan, stating that it "carried its fair share of comedic weight".[7]
Michael's announcement that Dunder Mifflin would be going "carbon neutral" was a tie-in with NBC's "Green Week".[8]


"Branch Wars" is the tenth episode of the fourth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's sixty-third episode overall. Written by Mindy Kaling and directed by Joss Whedon, the episode originally aired in the United States on November 1, 2007, on NBC. The episode marks the return of season three recurring actor Rashida Jones, who plays Jim's former girlfriend Karen Filippelli, now Regional Manager of Dunder Mifflin Utica.
Karen tries to "poach" Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) from Dunder Mifflin Scranton, and Stanley informs the branch that he is leaving. In revenge, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) trick Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) into traveling to the company's Utica branch, where the group attempts to play a prank on Karen. Back at the office, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez), and Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) try to hold their club meeting, with disastrous results.
Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones), after being "dumped" by Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), has become the Regional Manager at Dunder Mifflin's Utica, New York branch. Karen attempts to lure Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) away from Scranton by offering him a pay raise. Scranton Regional Manager Michael Scott (Steve Carell), believing that Karen is doing this to get back at Jim for dumping her, decides to retaliate. Michael and salesman Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) trick Jim into joining them on a trip to Utica to prank Karen's branch. After a failed attempt to steal the branch's industrial copier, the group is discovered by Karen, who chastises them in her office. Privately, she mocks Jim for devising such an elaborate ruse to see her. Jim's attempts to deflect the issue are unsuccessful, having mentioning that he and Pam are happily dating, which only further angers her. The group returns to Scranton, where Michael bids Stanley farewell. Stanley decides to stay in Scranton, revealing that his threat was a bluff to get a raise. Stanley exclaims that he does not know how Michael managed to call his bluff, even though Michael's hesitation and eventual acceptance over Stanley's departure was genuine.
Meanwhile, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez), and Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) form a "Finer Things Club", discussing literature, music, and the arts. Their meetings are regularly disrupted by other employees, particularly Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), whose desperate efforts to join prove unsuccessful.  Pam invites Jim to join the club but regrets the move when, during the discussion of Angela's Ashes, Jim merely speaks in an Irish brogue and reveals that he hasn't actually read the book.
"Branch Wars" was the second Office episode directed by Joss Whedon, the creator of the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Firefly.[1]  Whedon had previously directed the third season episode "Business School".[1]  The episode was the seventh Office episode written by Mindy Kaling, who also acts for the show as customer service representative Kelly Kapoor.[2]  "Branch Wars" marked the return of Karen Filippelli, who was a regular as a member of the Dunder Mifflin Stamford branch, and later Dunder Mifflin Scranton in the third season.  Her last previous appearance was the fourth season premiere "Fun Run", although she only appeared in one scene.  Utica salesman Ben Nugent, although not appearing on screen, is heard via a telephone conference and shares the same name as Kaling's former real-life boyfriend, Benjamin Nugent.[3]
"Branch Wars" received a 5.0/7 in the Nielsen ratings, meaning that five percent of households were tuned in at any given moment and seven percent of all televisions in use at the time were tuned into the program. The episode was watched by 8.39 million viewers and achieved a 4.5/11 in the ages 18–49 demographic.[4]  Mindy Kaling's writing in the episode was nominated for "Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series" in the 2008 NAACP Image Awards.[5]
Oscar Dahl, a senior writer for BuddyTV, gave the episode a favorable review and stated that "Tonight's Office was possibly the funniest of the season."[6]
Christine Fenno of Entertainment Weekly stated that "... 'Branch Wars', penned by Mindy Kaling, didn't measure up to the brilliance of last week's episode ('Local Ad') but served up plenty of laughs."[7]  Travis Fickett of IGN stated that "This episode feels like it comes in two halves, one that works and one that doesn't so much" when referring to the trip to Utica, and "The Finer Things Club", respectively, but later pointed out that "Despite being a somewhat bumpy ride, the episode has a fair number of big laughs."  Fickett particularly enjoyed Jim's character in the episode, and his actions and reactions to the situation that he became involved in.[8]



"Women's Appreciation" is the twenty-second episode of the third season of the American version of The Office, the show's fiftieth overall, and the third supersized episode of the season. In this episode, Phyllis is flashed in the parking lot, so Michael takes all the women to the mall for "women's appreciation", where the status of his relationship with Jan  comes to light. Meanwhile, Pam makes a sketch supposedly of the man who flashed Phyllis, when it in fact resembles Dwight, who is unaware and posts the fliers throughout town.
The episode was written by Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg and directed by Tucker Gates. The characters travel to Mall at Steamtown, a shopping center in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Cast members Jenna Fischer and Kate Flannery enjoyed the three-day shoot outside the office, and the latter was able to perform her own driving stunts. While filming, the cast were often met with fans "in full force" yelling out Steve Carell's name and taking pictures. Retailer Victoria's Secret agreed to close their mall store to the public to allow for episode filming.
"Women's Appreciation" first aired in the United States on May 3, 2007. It garnered an estimated 7.0 million viewers, causing it to rank fourth in its timeslot. Television critics gave positive reviews to the episode. Comedic elements, such as Pam's prank on Dwight, were praised, and many critics found Michael's antics humorous, but one reviewer felt that Michael's relationship problems with Jan came out of nowhere.
Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) enters the office and says she was flashed in the parking lot prompting Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) to open an investigation. He orders Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) to interview Phyllis and make a sketch of the flasher. However, Phyllis says she didn't get a good look at him, so Pam instead draws a picture of Dwight with a mustache and without glasses. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) (who also seems to notice that the sketch looks similar to Dwight) assists an oblivious Dwight in posting fliers with Pam's sketch on it around town.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) initially makes light of the exposure incident. After being shamed by how offended the other employees are by his antics, he attempts to reassert his sensitivity to women by holding a seminar on women's issues. He closes the meeting by offering to take the women to the Mall at Steamtown. Before leaving, he receives a call from Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin), who asks to meet with him to have sex. Michael balks at the proposal, and becomes more uncomfortable when she offers to pay him for the sex.
At the mall, Michael opens to the women about his discomfort with Jan. Among other things, he tells them Jan has been videotaping them having sex and watching it with him afterwards. All the women assure Michael that Jan's behavior is not normal and urge him to get out of the relationship. He remains conflicted about what he should do about Jan, but at Phyllis's prompting he finally admits to himself that he wants to break up with her. Michael thanks them for their help by treating them to one item each at Victoria's Secret. On the drive back, Pam takes a step toward asserting herself by changing a flat tire on Meredith Palmer's (Kate Flannery) car. At the office, Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) sneaks into the women's bathroom and discovers a plush waiting room. The other men soon join him. They leave in shock when Creed Bratton enters and is shown to regularly use the women's room "to do number two" (Noting to the camera that he has been "caught several times" and has "paid dearly").
Upon returning to the office, Michael calls Jan to end their relationship, doing so by leaving a voicemail message when she fails to answer. As he is doing this, Jan walks into his office to apologize in person for their earlier conversation, but when she receives Michael's voicemail, she walks out in silence. The episode ends with Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) informing Dwight he saw the flasher two minutes before in the women's bathroom "above the sink". Dwight dashes to the bathroom and examines the mirror where someone had etched a mustache similar to the sketch's. Dwight realizes the prank and curses Pam.
"Women's Appreciation" was written by Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg, while Tucker Gates served as the episode's director. The cold open featuring Jim receiving a demerit from Dwight was initially intended for "Business School", and the opening of "Product Recall", which featured Jim and Dwight impersonating each other, was first intended for this episode before it was moved because of time constraints. Michael's talking head scene about Jan's safeword was meant to serve as a "place holder" until a better version could be shot, but was left in the episode because the writers forgot about it.[2] While the characters travel to Mall at Steamtown, a shopping center in Scranton, Pennsylvania, episode filming actually took place near Los Angeles, where the series is normally shot.[3]
Kate Flannery, who plays Meredith, called the episode one of her favorites to shoot because she "was stuck in a van with Mindy Kaling, Jenna Fischer, Angela Kinsey, Rashida Jones, Phyllis Smith and Steve Carell for two days".[4] Fischer agreed, calling it a "fun episode to shoot" due to having three days of filming with Carell and The Office women.[2] Believing Meredith's minivan was "another character" in the series, Flannery enjoyed being able to drive and act simultaneously.[4] In a reflection of the character's personality, the production crew added props such as bottles of alcohol, chips, crushed soda cans, garbage, and 14 air fresheners to the vehicle. The cast however soon developed headaches, leading to the air fresheners' removal.[2][4] Flannery was able to perform her own stunts for the episode, explaining that she "was nervous at first, but I think I really could be a demolition-derby star".[4]
The cast enjoyed shooting at the mall, but were faced with fans "in full force".[4] Crowds followed them while shooting, holding up camera phones and yelling Carell's name.[2] Flannery said of the episode, "We shot some really fun stuff with Steve and the ladies just running around the mall. The food-court scene was so much fun. Steve is an amazing actor."[4] Lingerie retailer Victoria's Secret agreed to close their store to the public for filming.[2] In the episode, Angela reveals that she wears large sizes of clothes purchased from American Girl, a doll store chain,[5][6] but will not shop at children's retailer Gap Kids because it is "too flashy."[7] In the DVD audio commentary, Kinsey remarked that after the episode broadcast, people would bring up American Girl Doll catalogs for her to sign. Passersby also yelled out Carell's name during the scene where Pam changes a tire.[2]
The Season Three DVD contains a number of deleted scenes. Notable cut scenes include Kelly learning that Phyllis got flashed, Bob Vance, Vance Refrigeration, calming down Phyllis, Andy trying to earn back Dwight's favor by bonding over cold soups, Michael imagining himself as a woman, Dwight escorting the women to Meredith's car, Michael choosing lingerie for Pam, and an alternate version of Michael's concluding talking head.[8]
The episode first broadcast in the United States on May 3, 2007, on NBC in a special timeslot, airing behind an episode of My Name Is Earl. "Women's Appreciation" was a "supersized" episode, as it aired for forty minutes.[9][10] It attracted an estimated 7.0 million viewers,[11] and ranked fourth in its timeslot, behind episodes of Survivor: Fiji, Ugly Betty, and Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader?.[12]
The episode received positive reviews from television critics. IGN writer Brian Zoromski called "Women's Appreciation" a "fairly solid episode worthy of the super-sized treatment," and rated it 7.9 out of 10. He highlighted Pam's prank as well as Michael's attempt to break up with Jan via voicemail, calling the latter "easily the funniest moment in the episode, and perfectly played by both Steve Carell and Melora Hardin." Zoromski did however criticize the series for abandoning plot points, such as the publicity fiasco from the previous episode.[6] Give Me My Remote's Kath Skerry called it a "hilarious episode," and observed "I don’t think The Office has ever pushed the envelope in terms of sexual discussion as much as it did tonight."[13]
Jay Black from AOL TV disliked the episode's awkward moments and thought Michael's unhappiness with Jan came out of nowhere. Black did however praise Pam's prank as well as Dwight himself, but concluded his review: "A surprisingly weak handling of character combined with fewer laugh-out-loud moments than I'm used to forces me to give this episode 4 Creed number-twos out of 7."[14] Entertainment Weekly staff writer Abby West also critiqued "Women's Appreciation", explaining that it "felt exactly like a 30-minute episode stretched to fill 43 minutes". She thought the episode "only came together" once the Office women performed an intervention for Michael.[7]


"Initiation" is the fifth episode of the third season of the American version of The Office and the show's 33rd overall. In the episode, Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) is taken by Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) on what he believes is a sales call, but instead is brought to Dwight's beet farm for an "initiation." Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) is supposed to keep track of Michael Scott's (Steve Carell) productivity, but Michael spends his day waiting in line for a pretzel. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) steals Karen Filippelli's (Rashida Jones) chair and foils her attempts to get it back.
Written by B. J. Novak and directed by Randall Einhorn, the episode first aired in the United States on October 19, 2006, on NBC. Upon its debut, "Initiation" was seen by an estimated 8.46 million viewers according to Nielsen Media Research. It was positively received by television critics.
Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) plans to go on his first sales call with Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson). Dwight instead takes Ryan to his beet farm to both teach and haze him. When Ryan, a member of a fraternity in college, accuses him of trying to haze him into acceptance, Dwight snaps at him, saying the reason Ryan has yet to make a sale is because he thinks he knows everything, and must think otherwise to sell. After Dwight tries to force Ryan to wrestle his cousin Mose (Michael Schur), Ryan gets angry and walks out. Dwight apologizes to Ryan and begins to give Ryan serious sales advice as Ryan takes notes. The two then go on a sales call which ultimately does not work out for Ryan. Irritated, Ryan throws eggs at the building housing the company that refused his sale, with Dwight joining him. Dwight and Ryan then go to a bar and return to the office, where it appears they formed a new bond.
Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) instructs receptionist Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) to keep a log of Michael Scott's (Steve Carell) activity, and throughout the day, she dryly notes Michael's antics, including a Bill Cosby impression for a potential customer and waiting in line with Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) for a free soft pretzel, while hinting to Michael that he should focus on being productive. Michael enjoys Gary Glitter's "Rock and Roll" in his office at a high volume. After consuming his sugary pretzel, Michael emerges from his office and launches into a hyperactive, sugar-fueled speech before falling asleep at his desk. At the end of the day, Pam realizes that Michael's antics secured a large sale.
At Dunder Mifflin's Stamford branch, Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) discovers that Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) swapped his chair for hers, but Jim foils her efforts to switch them back. The two flirt for a while before Karen steals Andy Bernard's (Ed Helms) chair. Later that night, Jim, who was trying to call Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), ends up talking to Pam on the phone for the first time since the two kissed. The two have a lengthy conversation and begin to reconnect.  Jim misinterprets Pam's parting phrase to Ryan as being directed at him, and the two end their conversation, much to their sadness. The episode ends with a brief talking head of Stanley, counting down the days left in the year until the next Pretzel day.
This episode was the first full episode of the series directed by Randall Einhorn, and also the first time Einhorn had ever directed any episode of a TV show. Einhorn had previously directed all ten webisodes of the spin-off mini-series "The Accountants". "Initiation" was written by B. J. Novak, who also acts for the show as Ryan Howard.[1]
The episode aired after "Grief Counseling", but was filmed before it due to the availability of the beet farm location.[2] Although the idea for writer Michael Schur to be Dwight's cousin Mose had been a joke among the writers since the first season, B. J. Novak pitched the idea when writing "Initiation". In preparation for the episode, Schur grew out his beard for three months. On the days of the shoot, he also wore wool clothes, which was uncomfortable given the high temperatures outside. Mose was based on an actual participant in the UPN reality show Amish in the City.[3] The episode partially filmed on a ranch owned by Disney, and the production was required to have a professional snake wrangler on site due to the potential for rattlesnake visits to the area.
The third season DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from the episode, including Jan asking Michael to record his day on a schedule, Ryan being hugged by Michael before leaving for his first sales call, Dwight and Ryan leaving the office, Michael reading his schedule in a talking head scene, Pam encouraging Michael to "focus" for the day, Ryan reflecting on his life path, and Dwight showing Ryan his family cemetery and making a reference to his Nazi grandfather by calling him "a good man...who did some VERY bad things".[4]
"Initiation" first aired on October 19, 2006, in the United States on NBC. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was watched by an estimated 8.46 million viewers.[5]
This episode was generally well received by critics. Abby West of Entertainment Weekly stated that "one of the many things I love about the show is how current it is. I love the pop-culture references, like Lost's Dharma Initiative, Deal or No Deal, and that soon-to-be classic SNL/Chronicles of Narnia sketch.[6] IGN's Brian Zoromski said that although the episode had "a few hit and miss moments", it "was a very well done episode that carried through on three main storylines" and "began and ended beautifully".[7] A critic from eTV Review said that even if it "wasn’t as good as last week’s episode", it was still "another great one".[8]


"Phyllis' Wedding" is the sixteenth episode of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 44th overall. It first aired on February 8, 2007, on NBC. The episode was written by staff writer Caroline Williams and directed by Ken Whittingham. Actors Creed Bratton, Rashida Jones, and Bobby Ray Shafer guest star.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, the office attends Phyllis Lapin's (Phyllis Smith) wedding to Bob Vance (Shafer), and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) becomes upset with how many similarities there are between her canceled wedding and Phyllis'. Meanwhile, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) embarrasses the bride and groom, and Pam reconnects with her ex-fiancé Roy Anderson (David Denman).
Brian Baumgartner's character appears as a drum player in the episode, forcing the actor to take lessons for the instrument and rely on a stunt musician. According to Nielsen Media Research, an estimated 8.8 million viewers watched the episode at the time of broadcast. It received mixed reviews from television critics, as some reviewers found Michael's actions unrealistic and cartoonish. "Phyllis' Wedding" won a NAACP Image Award for Whittingham's directional work and received a nomination from the Writers Guild of America.
Phyllis Lapin (Phyllis Smith) has asked Michael Scott (Steve Carell) to push her father's wheelchair down the aisle at her wedding, a role that she gave him to secure six weeks off for her honeymoon. Michael is eager to participate, seeing himself in a "father of the bride" role, but is upset when Phyllis' father "upstages" him by walking the last few steps down the aisle under his own power.
Goaded by Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) hunts down wedding crashers. He ousts Phyllis' Uncle Al (George Ives), who fails to pass Dwight's questioning due to dementia. When Uncle Al is reported missing over the PA, Dwight realizes his mistake.
Michael makes several crude attempts to recapture the limelight, culminating with an overlong toast at the wedding banquet in which he impugns Phyllis' chastity. Outraged, Phyllis' husband Bob Vance (Bobby Ray Shafer) throws him out of the reception hall. Dwight does not let him re-enter, taking satisfaction in being able to eject a real wedding crasher. Michael finds company with Uncle Al, and eventually confesses that he is sorry for his behavior and worried that it may have sullied Phyllis' day, although Uncle Al is only able to respond with aloof statements.
Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) is upset that many details of Phyllis' wedding, from the invitations to the wedding gown, were copied from her own canceled wedding, and is further rankled when her ex-fiancé Roy Anderson (David Denman) fails to recognize any of these details. Roy expresses regret over his lack of involvement in their wedding plans and pays "Scrantonicity", the Kevin Malone-led (Brian Baumgartner) wedding band to play their song, "You Were Meant for Me". Touched by the gesture, Pam dances with him, and they leave together. Jim, who was flirting with Pam earlier in the reception, takes consolation in his relationship with Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones). When Phyllis leaves the reception hall with Bob Vance, Michael apologizes to her and she thanks him for finding Uncle Al. The newlyweds ride off in a Vance Refrigeration van.
It's been really fun because it's given me the freedom to go, 'This is impossible, I don't drum — or quite frankly sing all that well, and certainly not way up where those guys are singing. So just let it go and rock out as well as Kevin can.'
Brian Baumgartner on filming his musical scenes in the episode[3]"Phyllis' Wedding" was written by staff writer Caroline Williams and directed by Ken Whittingham,[4] his fifth such credit for the series.[5][6][7][8] Recurring guest stars Creed Bratton, Rashida Jones, and Bobby Ray Shafer appeared in the episode.[4] The episode is the first of the series to revolve around a wedding. In an interview with Entertainment Weekly, Baumgartner described the episode, "Michael plays a very important role in that wedding. He is to walk Phyllis' dad down the aisle by pushing him in a wheelchair, which in his mind is him walking Phyllis down the aisle, a very important position of authority. Of course, Phyllis has asked him to do this only so she can get six weeks of vacation time. But for him it's a place of honor, and from there, things don't go quite the way that he hopes."[3]
The episode features Kevin Malone playing the drums in a band, which had been an idea circulated since the first season, when allusions to him being in a Steve Miller tribute band were written; the scenes had to be removed from the series due to issues negotiating with the singer. The crew later decided to have Kevin be in a Police tribute band called Scrantonicity because he "talks so low, and has very little expression, and there is no band that sings higher and with more expression than the Police."[3] While Kevin was always intended to be the band's lead singer, executive producer Greg Daniels approached Baumgartner about possibly playing an instrument, but the actor replied he could not play anything. Daniels and Baumgartner then discussed instruments that would be "funny" to play and brought up harmonicas, saxophones, and drums. They ultimately decided on the latter because they deemed a "drumming lead singer [to] be the funniest choice," regardless of the fact that the actor had "absolutely no drumming experience, and it's a difficult instrument."[3] Baumgartner took some drum lessons, but found filming of the episode to be "the hardest thing that I've ever done artistically."[3] He was aided by a stunt musician who hid behind a curtain near the band.[3]
"Phyllis' Wedding" first aired on February 8, 2007, in the United States on NBC. According to Nielsen Media Research, an estimated 8.8 million viewers watched the episode, and it earned a 4.4/11 ratings share among adults aged 18 to 49. In other words, it was seen by 4.4 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[9]
AOL TV's Jay Black called the episode "amazing", partly because he believed the out-of-office setting made Michael's "social awkwardness and emotional neediness a lot more enjoyable."[10] Black observed that the "main romantic plotline had some nice movement tonight as well," and praised the Pam-Roy and Jim-Karen storylines in particular for their realism.[10] Writing for IGN, Brian Zoromski rated "Phyllis' Wedding" with 7 out of 10, an indication of a "good" episode. He asserted that the episode contained some "great moments" such as Jim's altoid prank on Dwight and Michael's conversation with Phyllis' uncle with dementia. In contrast to Black however, Zoromski believed Michael's "over-the-top cartoonishness" actions stretched "the believability of the show's" illusion as reality, especially because they occurred outside of the office.[11]
Give Me My Remote's Kath Skerry speculated that after several episodes of a "semi-normal" Michael, the writers "were aching to bring back cringe worthy Michael."[12] She criticized the decision, calling his behavior "borderline ridiculous (and not in a good way). It just seems implausible that someone could be so very clueless that they would act like that in public."[12] Skerry however did find high points, such as the opening sequence and any scene with Dwight and Angela.[12] Television Without Pity graded the episode with an "A".[13]
Entertainment Weekly columnist Abby West praised Smith for "again proving how sly her seemingly diffident character really is" by manipulating Michael. West also noted that she ended up "feel[ing] a little sorry" for Michael after the episode, due to the revelations learned from his childhood.[14] Carell later recalled that many fans "hated" Michael for disrupting Phyllis' wedding.[15] For his work in the episode, Whittingham won the NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Directing in a Comedy Series.[16] Along with two other Office episodes, for her work on this episode, Caroline Williams was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for Best Screenplay – Episodic Comedy.[17]

"The Injury" is the twelfth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's eighteenth episode overall. The episode was written by Mindy Kaling, who also acts in the show as Kelly Kapoor, and directed by Bryan Gordon. "The Injury" first aired in the United States on January 12, 2006, on NBC. The episode guest starred Marcus York as Billy Merchant.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) accidentally burns his foot on his George Foreman Grill, but insists on coming to work anyway. When none of his employees, except for Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), help him, Michael feels under-appreciated. Meanwhile, Dwight starts acting strangely nice to everyone, especially Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer).
"The Injury" was originally conceived by Greg Daniels to be a humorous follow-up to the previous episode, "Booze Cruise". According to B. J. Novak, the episode started out as an idea in the writing room that just "spun out of control". The episode was originally going to be called "My Grilled Foot", but it was later changed when the writers decided the name was "too weird". "The Injury" received widespread acclaim from critics and is widely regarded by critics as one of the show's greatest episodes. The episode earned a Nielsen rating of 5.1 in the 18–49 demographic and was viewed by 10.3 million viewers, making it, at the time, the highest-rated episode of the series.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) accidentally burns his foot while grilling bacon on his George Foreman Grill, which he keeps next to his bed. After he makes a distress call to the office, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) comes to "rescue" him, but crashes his car into a  fence pole. Dwight becomes more easygoing and friendly to his co-workers. He and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) strike up a friendship as a result.
Michael becomes upset with the staff's lack of compassion towards his "disability". Under false pretenses, he brings in Billy Merchant (Marcus A. York), the building's property manager who uses a wheelchair, to discuss what it is like to be disabled. Billy leaves after Michael makes several offensive remarks, but not before pointing out to Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) that Dwight has suffered a concussion from his car crash.
Jim and Michael take Dwight to the hospital. Before they go, Pam bids "goodbye" to the concussed Dwight, aware that she will probably never see the good-natured version of Dwight Schrute ever again. They take Meredith Palmer's mini-van, and as Jim drives, he uses a spray bottle to squirt Dwight to keep him from drinking liquor from a bottle he found under the seat. Jim then turns the squirt bottle on Michael to stop him from wrestling the liquor bottle away from Dwight.
At the hospital, Michael insists that his burned foot is a more serious injury than Dwight's, to no avail. To add insult to over-dramatic injury, Dwight gets in a "that's what she said" joke that makes the doctor chuckle. Jim calls Pam to report Dwight's results. Pam coyly tells Oscar Martinez about Dwight's recovery as a way of getting the good news to Angela Martin, who is between them, as Pam is the only person in the office aware that Angela is Dwight's girlfriend.
This episode was the second episode of the series directed by Bryan Gordon.[2] Gordon had previously directed the first season episode "The Alliance".[3] "The Injury" was written by Mindy Kaling, who also acts for the show as customer service representative Kelly Kapoor.[4] After the character development that had occurred in the previous episode, "Booze Cruise", Greg Daniels decided to create a more inane episode that involved "Michael's grilled foot".[5]
Writer and actor B. J. Novak said the idea for "Injury" started out as an idea in the writing room that just "spun out of control".[6] The original plan was for Michael to have fallen asleep in the sun, while having sunblock all over him, except for his foot. According to BJ Novak, the episode was originally going to be called "My Grilled Foot", but writer Mindy Kaling thought it was "too weird for people to tune in and watch that".[5][7] Novak has described "The Injury" as one of his favorite episodes, and said of it, "I don't think any other TV show would have made an episode from that starting point, and yet it was one of the funniest and most relatable episodes as it went on that we've ever had."[8]
The episode guest starred Marcus York, as the "no-nonsense" building manager for the Scranton business park. York described his character as "just trying to do his job".[9] York recalls being nervous during filming, and "drawing a blank" on his lines during the first 'run-through', because of his anxiousness around the cast members, but soon Marcus "smoothed-out".[10] After his portrayal of the character, York received several positive fan letters, who praised his performance as the straight man in a hectic work environment.[9] John Krasinski said that the van scene was his favorite to shoot, and that it "will go down in history as one of the most fun moments I've ever been a part of".[11]
Michael reveals that he burned his foot on a George Foreman Grill, a product promoted by George Foreman, a former champion boxer. The "Prism DuroSport" that Pam received from Roy as a Christmas present serves as a knock off of the popular music device, the iPod. When Michael asks the office what his foot looks like, Stanley replies, "Mail Boxes Etc.", a reference to the name of a company absorbed by UPS in 2001.[12]
During Michael's seminar on famous disabled people, two pictures on the wall are of Tom Hanks: one from the 1994 film Forrest Gump, and one from the 1988 film Big, which Michael confuses for the 1993 film Philadelphia.[12][13] During the scene, Kelly also name-drops Robert Loggia. In an attempt to get Dwight into Meredith's van, Jim tells him that they are going to Chuck E. Cheese, to which Michael replies that he is "so sick of" the restaurant.[2]
"The Injury" originally aired on NBC in the United States on January 12, 2006.[14] The episode received a 5.1 rating/12% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 5.1% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 12% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode ranked as the third half-hour comedy during the week of January 16, and the series ranked as the fifteenth-highest-rated series out of 113 others, in the 18–49 demographic.[15] The episode was viewed by 10.3 million viewers,[16] making it the highest-rated episode of The Office at the time, beating the series' pilot, which received a Nielsen rating of only 5.0.[17]
An encore presentation of the episode, on July 5, 2006, received a 1.8/6 rating and was viewed by over 3.9 million viewers: an increase by 29 percent of its lead-in audience.[18] Another encore presentation on August 22, 2006, received a 2.0/6 rating, was viewed by 5.3 million viewers, retained 100 percent of its lead-in "My Name is Earl" audience, and ranked as the most-watched episode of The Office during the summer of 2006.[19]
Since its airing, "The Injury" has received critical acclaim from television critics. The scene featuring Dwight crashing his car received specific attention. IGN ranked the scene with Dwight getting in a car accident as its seventh-best moment in the first two seasons, noting that "[t]he fact that this show can get such inspired and unusual comedy from what is essentially a puke joke is a testament to how clever The Office is."[20] Rolling Stone named the same scene as the twentieth-funniest in The Office's first three seasons.[21] TV Squad's Michael Sciannamea said that "The Injury" was "another solid episode" and that the "show gets better with each and every week".[22] M. Giant of Television Without Pity graded the episode with an "A−".[12] Francis Rizzo III from DVD Talk wrote positively of the episode and praised the performance of Rainn Wilson as Dwight and wrote that "nothing he does compares" to his performance in "The Injury". He called Wilson's performance as Dwight "flat-out strange" and noted that the episode, along with several others, "wouldn't be nearly as entertaining" without his character.[23] Mindy Kaling later stated in an interview that it was her favorite episode of the show that she had written.[5] She later expanded that the entry's "full-on loopy" quality made it humorous.[24] She noted that the episode was "so funny to me, because what happened to [Michael] is so stupid".[24]



"Michael Scott Paper Company" is the twenty-third episode of the fifth season of the television series The Office and the 95th overall episode of the series. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on April 9, 2009.
In the episode, Michael, Pam and Ryan try to get their new paper company off the ground, but end up bickering among themselves due to the stress and cramped office space. Meanwhile, Jim tries to do a "rundown" for new boss Charles Miner without admitting he does not know what a rundown is, while Dwight and Andy compete for the affections of the new receptionist, Erin, played by Ellie Kemper.
The episode was written by Justin Spitzer and directed by Gene Stupnitsky. It included a guest appearance by Idris Elba, who played new Dunder Mifflin vice president Charles Miner. The episode aired the same day as "Dream Team"; the debut episode of the new NBC show Parks and Recreation was shown between the two episodes. "Michael Scott Paper Company" included a new title sequence with footage of the series characters in the new Michael Scott Paper Company office setting, rather than the Dunder Mifflin setting from previous episodes. The episode received mostly positive reviews from critics, although many said it was not as funny as the previous episode, which had aired previously on the same day. According to Nielsen ratings, it was watched by eight million viewers and captured the most viewers in its time slot for adults between the ages of 18 and 49. "Michael Scott Paper Company" received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Sound Mixing for a Comedy or Drama Series (Half-Hour) and Animation.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell), Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), and Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) are struggling to adjust to the work environment of the new Michael Scott Paper Company. The office space used to be a closet; water pipes run through the room, so they can hear the toilets flush from the Dunder Mifflin bathrooms above them. Ryan openly goofs off in front of Pam and Michael and mocks both of them in their presence during phone conversations. Pam and Ryan bicker over who is responsible for making copies until Michael separates them into corners. Pam, who joined the company as a saleswoman, is given the corner where the photocopier sits. She is concerned that Michael will force her to be the receptionist, which is why she quit Dunder Mifflin in the first place. She goes upstairs and asks Charles Miner (Idris Elba) for her job back, but Charles has already given the job to a new employee, Kelly Hannon (Ellie Kemper), who ends up going by her middle name—Erin—to avoid confusion with Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling).
Michael hosts a pancake luncheon to introduce the company to potential clients, but only one person and a few Dunder Mifflin employees show up. When Michael, Pam, and Ryan come close to giving up, the potential client from the luncheon calls asking for paper. Pam closes the sale and the three cheer in celebration.
In the Dunder Mifflin office, Charles asks Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) for a "rundown" of his client information. Jim does not know what a rundown is, but is too embarrassed to ask because he has been making such a poor impression with Charles. Jim spends much of the day trying to figure out what a rundown is, making several failed attempts to figure it out by chatting vaguely about it with Charles and other coworkers. When he finally finishes what he believes is a rundown, Charles does not look at it and simply asks Jim to fax it to everyone on the distribution list. Jim does not know what the distribution list is either, but rather than asking Charles, he simply faxes the rundown to his father.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) plan a hunting trip, but their new friendship is tested by their mutual romantic interest in Erin. Both make passes at her, but eventually agree their friendship is more valuable than a romantic interest. However, they end up trying simultaneously to impress Erin during a competitive duet of John Denver's "Take Me Home, Country Roads", with Andy on a banjo and Dwight playing guitar; both sing, and Dwight sings part of the song in German. Erin is initially impressed with both of them, but winds up awkwardly sneaking out of the room as they play. The loud duet is finally stopped by a frustrated Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein). Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) is visibly annoyed by Dwight and Andy's budding friendship.
"Michael Scott Paper Company" was written by Justin Spitzer and directed by Gene Stupnitsky. It originally aired April 9, 2009, the same day as the episode "Dream Team"; the debut episode of the new NBC show Parks and Recreation was shown between the two episodes.[1] "Michael Scott Paper Company" was the fourth of six episodes guest starring Idris Elba, best known as Stringer Bell from The Wire. Elba said he did not watch the episode after it aired because "I'm hypercritical about my work, so I try not to torture myself."[2] According to the Season 5 DVD episode commentary, B. J. Novak came up with the story idea involving Jim and the "rundown" and worked it into Spitzer's final script. The episode included a new title sequence with footage of the series characters in the new Michael Scott Paper Company office setting, rather than the Dunder Mifflin setting from the previous episodes.[3][4] Rainn Wilson and Ed Helms practiced the guitar competition in Helms' trailer during lunch the day of the filming; Helms, a proficient bluegrass banjo player, coached Wilson, who is proficient at guitar and drums. Wilson said he proposed doing a full studio cover of the song, with Creed Bratton providing backup guitar and vocals, and selling it on iTunes for charity.[5] Helms said he was happy to have the opportunity to play banjo on screen, but did not feel the instrument made much sense for his character; Helms said, "It's so fun and weird, but he's a Connecticut preppy guy. How did he pick up a banjo? It's one of Andy's many mysteries, not all of which I even understand."[6]
Prior to the episode's airing, NBC set up a web site for the new Michael Scott Paper Company at www.michaelscottpapercompany.com,[3][7] which included a mission statement for the company, photos of the new office space and a downloadable copy of the coupon for "unparalleled customer service" featured in the episode.[8] The official website for The Office included four cut scenes from "Michael Scott Paper Company" within a week of the episode's original release. In one 85-second clip, Dwight and Andy pretend to shoot, stab and throw grenades at each other in pantomime in anticipation of their hunting trip; they pretend to kill Jim and pester him until he plays dead, after which Charles walks in and believes he is napping.[9] A second one-minute clip includes Pam and Ryan fighting around the new office until they are interrupted by a janitor who believes the room is still a closet and leaves water jugs on the floor.[10] In a third, 40-second clip, Jim asks Charles directly what a "rundown" is, but when an annoyed Charles asks if this is "one of your pranks", Jim gives up and leaves.[11] The fourth and final clip, which is 85 seconds long, features Andy and Dwight both making passes at Erin; Andy discusses how easy it would be to learn sign language, while Dwight tells her to be careful not to get her hair or clothes caught in the nearby paper shredder.[12]
Dwight and Andy sing and perform the John Denver song "Take Me Home, Country Roads" while trying to impress the new receptionist. At one point, Toby is overheard through a vent discussing and praising the FX show Damages while on the phone in a bathroom. He said it is as good as anything on HBO, a premium television channel known for such shows as The Sopranos, Six Feet Under and The Wire. During the workday, Ryan watches a YouTube video of a rap music commercial for Flea Market Montgomery; the low-budget rap music advertisement for the Montgomery, Alabama flea market gained Internet fame.[4] Michael uses Evite, social-planning website for creating online invitations, to invite people to his pancake luncheon. On a whiteboard, Michael writes a quote of himself quoting Wayne Gretzky, the popular ice hockey player who said "You miss 100% of the shots you don’t take."[13] The new paper company office included Apple computers and a Nerf basketball hoop. During a phone conversation, Ryan said he wants an iPod music player that also serves as a phone, but not an iPhone, which is essentially that very product; both items are Apple products.[14] Michael listens to "Just Dance", a Lady Gaga song, while driving his convertible to work,[15] which he mistakes for a Britney Spears song. Near the end of the episode, when Andy states that every song sounds better a cappella, Dwight asks about the songs "Cherry Pie" by Warrant, "Enter Sandman" by Metallica and "Rebel Yell" by Billy Idol.[16]
In its original American broadcast on April 9, 2009, "Michael Scott Paper Company" was watched by 8 million overall viewers, according to Nielsen ratings. The episode earned more ratings than "Dream Team", the other Office episode of the night, which had 7.2 million viewers. It also performed better than the Parks and Recreation pilot, which ran between the two Office episodes and had 6.8 million viewers.[17] "Michael Scott Paper Company", as well as "Dream Team", had the most viewers in its time slot among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[18]
The episode received mostly positive reviews. Travis Fickett of IGN said this and other recent episodes are "proving that the show has plenty of life in it and [that] The Office has still got it."[19] He said the funniest element of the show was the emerging "bro-mance" between Dwight and Andy.[19] Will Leitch of New York magazine said, "The Office kind of needed this sort of shake-up, even if it’s something as simple as another room to put all our characters in."[3] Keith Phipps of The A.V. Club said he liked the plot aspects involve the new company, particularly the pancake breakfast and the first successful sales call: "I know the series probably has to revert to something like the old status quo at some point, but I almost wish it could stay in that dank little corner a little longer."[1] Phipps, who gave the episode a B+ grade, said the "rundown" subplot between Jim and Charles was a bit strained by the end.[1] Steven Mullen of The Tuscaloosa News called the episode "stellar" and particularly praised the comedic chemistry between Andy and Dwight.[20]
Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger said he was enjoying the new paper company storyline, but that "Michael Scott Paper Company" was not as funny as "Dream Team", which aired the same day. Sepinwall praised particular scenes such as Dwight and Andy's competitive duet  and Kelly's plan to make Charles want her. She criticized the cramped new office space jokes as being less funny than those in previous episodes. Sepinwall also said the storyline between Jim and Charles was getting repetitive and, "It would help if the writers ever gave Idris Elba something funny to do."[4] Margaret Lions of Entertainment Weekly said, "This episode wasn't one of my favorites … No bombs, no bits that failed, and by The Office's standards, nothing even particularly cringe worthy. But 'TMSPC' is more groundwork than payoff."[14] She said Dwight's rendition of "Take Me Home, Country Roads" in German was "the absolute funniest moment of the episode".[14]
In her list of the top ten moments from the fifth season of The Office, phillyBurbs.com writer Jen Wielgus ranked Michael's formation of the Michael Scott Paper Company in the downstairs storage closet as the number one, citing the "Dream Team", "Michael Scott Paper Company" and "Heavy Competition" episodes in particular. She also said she specifically enjoyed the paper-shaped pancakes from "Michael Scott Paper Company".[21] "Michael Scott Paper Company" was voted the twelfth highest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 8.27 out of 10.[22]
This episode received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Sound Mixing for a Comedy or Drama Series (Half-Hour) and Animation. "Michael Scott Paper Company" accounted for one of the ten Primetime Emmy Award nominations The Office received for the show's fifth season at the 61st Primetime Emmy Awards, which were held on September 20, 2009.[23]



Part 2
"The Delivery" is a two-part episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office. Since it is an hour-long episode, it is considered to be the 17th and 18th episodes in the season's episode count. It is the 117th and 118th episode overall.[1]
In this episode, Pam starts having contractions but insists on waiting till midnight to go to the hospital in order to get an extra night at the hospital, irritating Jim. The office tries to distract her with food and entertainment. She eventually goes to the hospital and gives birth to a daughter, Cecelia Marie Halpert. Meanwhile, Michael, inspired by the success of Pam and Jim's relationship, sets up Erin with Kevin. Dwight, sent over to find Pam's iPod, discovers mold in Pam and Jim's house and remodels their entire kitchen, and also considers entering a pre-natal contract with ex-girlfriend Angela, for he feels he needs a baby for business reasons.
Part one is written by Daniel Chun and directed by Seth Gordon, while part two is written by Charlie Grandy and directed by Harold Ramis. The episode received mixed reviews from critics and came first in its time slot, helping NBC be the third highest-rated network of the night.
Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) both acquire sales while making small talk about their baby's upcoming birth. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) wants to do the same and asks Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) to be the mother. Angela is initially excited, but becomes annoyed after Dwight draws up a parenting contract with absurd demands he wants her to agree to.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) anxiously waits for Pam and Jim's baby to be born; Jim urges Pam to let him take her to the hospital, but Pam would rather wait until midnight like she and Jim wanted to do initially (arriving after midnight means a longer hospital stay under the terms of their health insurance). She finds comfort in watching the rest of the office performing absurd activities to distract her from the pain. When Jim reaches his breaking point, Pam reveals that their baby is a girl, which calms Jim's nerves a bit, but then she tells him that her water broke.
Since Pam and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) have gotten hungry at the same times, they have enjoyed regular meals together, and Kevin prepares her one final "Ultra Feast" before she gives birth. When the contractions appear to become too extreme, Jim, Michael, and Kevin all think it is time for her to go to the hospital. Pam still refuses, and finally breaks down admitting that she is scared to give birth. Jim initially assures her that everything will be all right, but goes into a panic when he's informed she is now at 2 minutes in between contractions (5–7 minutes is the suggested time to leave for the hospital). Pam finally relents and Michael drives her and Jim to the hospital, with Dwight "escorting" them. Pam realizes she has forgotten her iPod with her desired birth music on it so they request that Dwight retrieve it from their house, asking that he not "touch anything". After 19 hours of labor, Cecelia Marie Halpert is born at 1:21 pm, weighing in at 7 lbs 2oz.
Pam's breastfeeding does not go well, and though a male lactation consultant (Lee Kirk, Fischer's real-life husband) is summoned to provide apparently successful coaching, Cecelia still fails to latch properly. Against the advice of the nurse, Jim and Pam opt to have Cecelia spend the night with them instead of in the nursery, and they are kept up long hours tending to her. A sleep-deprived Pam accidentally nurses a baby that belongs to a new mom (Melissa Rauch) in the same hospital room. As Jim and Pam get ready to leave the hospital, Pam manages to breast feed Cecelia while Jim gets the car (which is littered with parking tickets, thanks to Michael parking the car in an ambulance only zone).
Michael sees the birth as proof that he is a successful office matchmaker. He sets up Kevin on a lunch date with Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), making Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) jealous. Though Kevin thinks the lunch goes well, Michael rudely tells Kevin that he is not good enough to date Erin, infuriating and confusing Kevin as Michael told Kevin that Erin liked him. Kevin also points out that Michael has dated women that appeared to be better than him. Eventually, Andy finally considers actually asking Erin out himself, to which she happily accepts as Michael looks on.
At the Halpert residence, Dwight embarks on a search for the iPod only to find mold under the sink and moves in for several days while he reconstructs the cabinets. Dwight and Angela make the final revisions to the parenting contract, but Dwight begins to have second thoughts after an encounter with Pam's friend Isabel (Kelen Coleman), with whom he had a one night stand at Jim and Pam's wedding. He signs the contract, but decides to hold it off. Jim and Pam arrive home with the baby and find Dwight and their wrecked house, but decide not to question it.
The first part of the episode was written by Daniel Chun, his second writing credit for the series after "Murder", and directed by Seth Gordon, his second directing credit for the series after "Double Date".[2] The second part was written by Charlie Grandy, his fourth writing credit of the series, and directed by Harold Ramis, who also directed "A Benihana Christmas," "Safety Training" and "Beach Games."[3] The episode also guest stars Nelson Franklin playing Nick the IT Administrator who would appear in later episodes, and Linda Purl who played Helene, Pam's mother who previously dated Michael.[4] While the episode has a failed attempt at pairing Kevin and Erin, actor Brian Baumgartner revealed he actually pitched to the writers them becoming a couple for considering "their energies matched in a weird way", and also to let Kevin "mature a little bit".[5]
In its original American broadcast, part one of "The Delivery" was watched by 8.71 million viewers, with a 4.5 rating and a 12 share in the 18–49 demographic, with part two increasing in viewers to 9.35 million and a 4.9 rating and a 13 share winning its timeslot both times and helping NBC come third ahead of ABC and The CW.[6] The episode ranked 10th in the weekly 18–49 ratings and ranked 24th in total viewers weekly ratings.[7] It was the last episode of The Office to be viewed by over 9 million viewers.
Dan Phillips of IGN gave the episode a 6.6 saying that Pam's lactation problems and Kevin's lack of personality while dating Erin made consistently amusing plots, "But sadly everything that the episode's half-hour gets right doesn't make up for the painfully uncomfortable and largely unfunny first half." He particularly objected to the length that Pam's refusal to go to the hospital is stretched out, since the entire office supporting her irrational decision even after her water breaks was "uncomfortable and unbelievable".[8] Ken Tucker of Entertainment Weekly gave the episode a positive review saying "Last night managed to combine a thoroughly believable and funny central idea—that Pam would try to delay going to the hospital to get some extra time, gaming the office’s “stupid HMO”—with a batch of fine Michael scenes and a thoroughly didn’t-buy-it-for-a-second Dwight subplot."[9] Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club gave the episode a B+ saying "It felt a little padded and implausible and lurched from one radically different tone to another but it was also very funny and intriguingly prickly and real when it wasn't being cartoonish and over the top. It wasn't a home run."[10]
Joel Keller of TV Squad gave the episode a mixed review saying "As usual with most one-hour 'Office' episodes, the first half was better than the second. But even the first half of this one had some problems".[11]


"Garage Sale" is the nineteenth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 145th episode overall. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on March 24, 2011.[1] The episode was written by Jon Vitti and directed by series cast member, Steve Carell. The episode marks Carell's third director's credit for the series and the final physical appearance of Amy Ryan, having appeared as a regular since "Classy Christmas". (She makes a voice-only appearance in the episode "Goodbye, Michael".)
In the episode, Michael (Steve Carell) decides to propose to Holly (Amy Ryan), and runs into trouble thinking of how to do it well with his expensive diamond ring. He consults several coworkers on advice and for ideas on how to propose. Meanwhile, Dunder Mifflin Scranton's warehouse and crew hosts a public garage sale.
"Garage Sale" was met with critical acclaim by television reviewers as well as fans. Furthermore, HitFix reviewer Alan Sepinwall wrote that the episode could have served as Carell's last episode. It is considered one of the best episodes of The Office. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was viewed by more than 7 million viewers and received a 3.4 rating/10% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49 which marked a slight rise in the ratings from the previous episode, "Todd Packer".
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) decides to propose to Holly Flax (Amy Ryan), and runs into trouble thinking of how to do it in the most elaborate way possible with his expensive diamond ring (which cost what he believes is the traditional "three years' salary"). He pours gasoline in the parking lot in the shape of letters, planning to light them on fire and show it to Holly. Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) stops it and gathers a meeting of Michael, herself, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), and Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez). They believe Holly truly is "the one" for him and give him anecdotes and ideas. They are shocked at Michael's suggestion, particularly one where he throws a corpse dressed as him off the roof, and are stunned at his huge engagement ring. He calls Holly's father to ask his permission (although he leaves a message rather than speak to him personally). Holly catches onto the idea when she calls her parents herself, but she notices her parents seem mentally disoriented. She talks to Michael later and says she wants to move back to Colorado to be there for her dad, and Michael supports her decision. Holly seems to be gearing up for a proposal, but Michael abruptly leaves, not wanting to be proposed to in such a casual way.
Dunder Mifflin Scranton's warehouse and crew host a public garage sale. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) attempts to walk away with the most expensive item by trading smaller items with his office mates beginning with a thumbtack (a reference to One red paperclip) and continuously trading up from table to table. One item on Jim and Pam's table that piques his interest is a packet of "miracle legumes." Jim claims he received them from a mysterious old man on vacation, and that they keep reappearing on his table whenever he puts them away. Dwight initially believes Jim is trying to prank him, but is astonished when they reappear after Jim had seemingly destroyed the packet. Eventually, his curiosity gets the better of him and he trades Jim a $150 telescope for the legumes. At the end of the episode, Dwight plants and waters the seeds and Jim secretly replaces the pots with full-grown plants.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) play and bet on the Dallas board game, which Kevin had for sale. As the instruction booklet is not with the game, Andy and Darryl make up the rules as they go along; when Kevin objects, Andy simply claims "that's Dallas." Eventually, Kevin notices the money they had bet on the game is missing, and storms out. As Darryl and Andy look at each other in confusion, Kevin reveals to the cameras that he has the money, stating, "And that... is Dallas", mocking Andy's statement.
Michael takes Holly on a walk through the office, pointing out the locations of various events throughout their courtship. He opens the door to the kitchen, revealing all of the other employees holding candles, a path in between them. Various members of the office ask Holly if she will marry them (all part of Michael's plan) and she politely declines each one. Michael then leads Holly out to her desk, which is surrounded by dozens of candles. Michael gets down on his knee and begins to make a speech when the fire sprinklers go off due to the burning candles. The water drenches everyone in the office and Michael proposes. Holly accepts. Everyone then begins to congratulate Michael. However, Michael announces he is moving to Colorado with Holly, leaving his employees in shock.
Coupled with the fact that it was the start of Steve's departure and it was my own, yeah, there wasn't a dry eye in the house — literally, from the water pouring down on us and from our emotions. But it was a beautiful night ... We did it in two takes, but it took the crew quite a bit to vacuum up all the water with these big power vacs and reset everything as we stood by in robes, shivering.
Amy Ryan[2]This episode was written by consulting producer Jon Vitti, his second writing credit of the series since joining the staff at the beginning of the seventh season. It was directed by series star Steve Carell, the third episode he has directed for the series. The episode marked Amy Ryan's last physical appearance on the series, although she did speak in "Goodbye, Michael".[2] Ryan later said in an interview with New York that "The script was so sweet anyway that it made us all have a good cry" especially adding the fact that it was her final appearance.[2] She also expressed her confidence that the series could survive without Carell and that it was the right move for him to leave.[2] Vitti later submitted the episode for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series, but it was not nominated.[3]
"Garage Sale" features several callbacks to previous episodes. Kevin's skills at poker were previously shown in "Casino Night".[4] Michael's St. Pauli Girl sign was previously shown in "Dinner Party".[5] Michael mentions when Toby left for Costa Rica from "Night Out".[5]
In its original American broadcast, "Garage Sale" was viewed by an estimated 7.07 million viewers and received a 3.4 rating/10% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[6] This means that it was seen by 3.4% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a slight rise in the ratings from the previous episode, "Todd Packer", which received series lows.[7] The episode ranked second in its timeslot beating the Fox crime drama Bones, which was seen by 8.78 million households; and CBS coverage of NCAA basketball, which was seen by 6.82 million household; but it was defeated by the ABC medical drama Grey's Anatomy, which was seen by an average 10.1 million households.[6]
This episode received critical acclaim and is considered one of the best Office episodes. HitFix reviewer Alan Sepinwall called it one of his "favorite Office episodes ever" and also called it one of the greatest romantic sitcom episodes of all-time. He also said the episode could have served as Carell's last episode, and praised "Garage Sale" for its multiple subplots, its exploration of the ensemble cast, and Jim's prank against Dwight.[8] Sepinwall named it one of the best TV episodes of 2011 for series that were not great the whole year and praised it for showcasing "the ridiculous and romantic sides of The Office". He also wrote that it gave Fischer and Krasinski their best material for the series in years.[9] Cindy White of IGN praised it for its mix of comedy and drama. She also complimented it for the showcase of the cast, ultimately giving the episode a 9/10.[5] James Poniewozik of Time said it "was unspectacular as an episode overall but did build to a delightful moment as Michael finally proposed to Holly", later naming it one of his honorable mentions for the top 10 TV episodes of 2011.[10][11]
The A.V. Club writer Myles McNutt called the episode a "spiritual successor to 'Casino Night', which remains one of my all-time favorite episodes of the series" for "turning what could feel like a gimmicky sitcom scenario into something that feels distinct to both the office [the characters] ... and The Office". He ultimately gave the episode an A−.[4] Kevin Fallon of The Atlantic compared the proposal to other television proposals on Friends, Cheers and Frasier.[12] New York writer Willer Paskin praised the writers for being adept at writing for romance.[13] Following the airing of the episode, Colorado governor John Hickenlooper issued a press release appointing Michael Scott to the position of Director of Paper Distribution in the Department of Natural Resources.[14] "Garage Sale" was voted the third-highest-rated out of 24 from the seventh season, according to a "Survivor" episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally.[15] It was later named the 20th-best episode of the series according to an episode poll by OfficeTally.[16] BuddyTV named the episode the 19th-best TV episode of 2011 and it was the only episode of the series to make the list.[17]


"Moving On" is the sixteenth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 192nd episode overall. The episode was written by Graham Wagner and directed by Jon Favreau. It originally aired on NBC on February 14, 2013. The episode guest stars Bob Odenkirk, Mary Gillis, Collette Wolfe, and Andy Buckley. The episode also features the return of former series regular Zach Woods as Gabe Lewis.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) interviews for a job in Philadelphia, but her potential manager (Odenkirk) reminds her of her former boss, Michael Scott. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) recruits Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) to help give his elderly aunt (Gillis) a bath. Meanwhile, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) attempts to make Pete Miller (Jake Lacy) and Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) feel uncomfortable by hiring their ex-lovers.
On February 8, 2013, NBC announced that the episode would be expanded to fill a one-hour television block, although it still counts as one official episode. The episode received largely positive reviews, although many were critical of the episode's extended length, which they argued felt padded. The episode was viewed by 4.06 million viewers and received a 2/6 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode ranked third in its timeslot, and it was the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
David Wallace scolds Andy Bernard for lying about his three-month absence from the office. David later tells Andy that he will not fire him, thanking him for helping him buy the company, but warns Andy that he is on very thin ice. Andy learns that Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) is dating Pete Miller (Jake Lacy), which they have been holding in secrecy from him in order to make his breakup with Erin easier. Though Andy doesn't figure this out at first, having called Pete "Plop" for so long he forgot his name, he realizes the truth upon finding a lunch bag with his name on it.
Andy attempts to fire Pete, but Toby Flenderson points out that he cannot do this since Pete and Erin already disclosed their relationship and that he can’t fire people simply over grudges. Erin and Pete then both lecture Andy about moving on, claiming that working alongside one's ex-lover does not have to be awkward. To refute this claim, Andy hires both Pete's ex-girlfriend Alice (Collette Wolfe) and Erin's ex-boyfriend Gabe Lewis. After giving Pete and Erin time to appreciate how uncomfortable this is, he holds a meeting with them and their ex-lovers, leading the two couples to argue with each other. Andy tells the camera that seeing Erin and Pete unhappy has made him feel better.
Dwight Schrute requests the help of Angela Lipton in caring for his ailing Aunt Shirley. Angela initially refuses, but gives in when Dwight begins describing her ailments in grotesque detail. At the house, Angela is horrified by Dwight's treatment of his Aunt: he consistently speaks to her in a condescending tone, proposes to cut off her worn-out clothing with a utility knife, and "bathes" her by spraying her with a high-pressure water hose like a cow. After subduing Dwight by spraying him with the hose, Angela insists on washing and grooming Shirley in a more dignified manner. Through the process, Dwight and Angela recall their feelings for each other. At the end of the day, they begin kissing, but Angela reminds Dwight that she is married and says she will not leave her husband even though he does not care for her. Dwight accepts this, admitting that he would want that same loyalty from her if she were his wife.
Toby has been discussing the details of the Scranton Strangler case with Nellie Bertram for some time, feeling the guilty verdict he helped deliver was rushed. Having grown weary of the subject, she snaps at him that he should do something about it. Toby accordingly goes to the local prison to talk to the person convicted of being the notorious local murderer and tell him he believes he is innocent. Offscreen, the convict begins strangling Toby for his part in the conviction. However, Toby does have his spirits lifted, realizing he was guilty and after Nellie gives him a lift from the hospital and commends him for his bravery.
Pam Halpert leaves the office to interview for a job in Philadelphia; when Andy tries to assert his authority by asking where she is going, Pam snaps "not on a three-month boat trip" and walks out as Andy looks on in defeat while the rest of the office looks at him with disgust. At the interview, Pam finds her potential manager, Mark , is remarkably like her former Dunder Mifflin regional manager Michael Scott. While this initially amuses her, Pam gradually realizes that the prospect of working under another Michael Scott is abhorrent, and her horror increases when Mark reveals that she is interviewing for a glorified receptionist's job. During a romantic dinner, Pam finally admits to Jim Halpert  that even had the prospective job and boss been perfect she would not have wanted to take it, since she does not really want to move to Philadelphia, despite Jim having started his own business there. The two look deeply at each other over this divide.
Oscar Martinez cues up a television show on his computer, and while the ad loads, he does gravity boot sit-ups. While he is struggling to get down, the camera zooms in on an upcoming television guide on Oscar's computer screen that reveals that the in-series documentary—called The Office: An American Workplace—will air in May.
"Moving On" was written by series producer Graham Wagner, making it his second episode for the series after the earlier ninth season episode "The Target".[2][3] The episode was directed by filmmaker Jon Favreau, marking his first directing credit for the series and the first time he has directed for a television comedy since Fox's Undeclared.[4] Fischer noted that, because Favreau got his start as an actor in "quiet, character based comedies", his directing of The Office was a "return to that" type of comedy.[5] On February 8, 2013, NBC announced that the episode would be expanded to fill a one-hour television block, although it still counts as one official episode.[6]
The episode guest stars Bob Odenkirk—who had previously been considered for the role of Michael Scott—as Pam's potential employer, Mary Gillis as Aunt Shirley, and Andy Buckley as David Wallace.[3][7] The episode also features the return of former series regular Zach Woods as Gabe Lewis.[3] Woods was introduced in the sixth season episode "Sabre" and was added to the series as a regular with the premiere of the seventh season.[8] Woods's contract was not renewed at the beginning of the ninth season, but series showrunner Greg Daniels revealed that Woods would be returning; he noted "It's kind of a neat story turn ... He's going to come back and we're all excited to see him back".[9]
When he is being yelled at by Wallace, Andy references American rapper Vanilla Ice and musician Jon Bon Jovi.[3] Andy gives Clark (Clark Duke) various nicknames, including Clarker Posey (a reference to American actress Parker Posey), Clarkwork Orange (a reference to the novel A Clockwork Orange and the film of the same name), and Zero Clark Thirty (a reference to the film Zero Dark Thirty).[10][11] At the Philadelphia office, Mark alludes to pop culture, with references to the 2011 film Horrible Bosses and the 2012 film Django Unchained. He also sings the K-pop hit "Gangnam Style" by Psy, and reads Pam's resume as if he were Bob Dylan. Mark also makes a reference to the Spanish Inquisition sketch from Monty Python, but misattributes it to the Canadian sketch comedy group The Kids in the Hall. Near the end of Pam's interview, Mark questions her on whether she enjoys the HBO series Curb Your Enthusiasm;[12] Odenkirk actually had a role in the third episode of the first season of Curb Your Enthusiasm. The title of the in-series documentary, The Office: An American Workplace, is the name given to the series itself when it was broadcast in the UK to differentiate it from the British version of the show.[13]
"Moving On" originally aired on NBC on February 14, 2013.[1] In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by an estimated 4.06 million viewers and received a 2.0 rating/6 percent share.[14] This means that it was seen by 2.0 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a slight decrease in the ratings from the previous episode, "Vandalism".[14][15] The Office ranked third in its timeslot, being beaten by an episode of
the CBS police procedural Person of Interest which received a 3.0/8 percent rating, and an entry of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which received a 2.8/8 percent rating.[14] The ratings for "Moving On" were the best for NBC in the 9–10 pm Thursday timeslot since November 8, 2012.[16]
Jeff Alexander of Television Without Pity awarded the episode an "A−".[12] Damon Houx of Screen Crush called the episode the "highlight" of the season. In particular, he was pleased with the way Pam and Jim's strife was portrayed; he wrote that "tonight the ... drama felt earned in a way it hadn't previous" and that "Jim and Pam were used well". Houx was also extremely pleased with Odenkirk's performance, writing that, "Even if Odenkirk is doing an impression of Steve Carell's character, not only is it great for the non-comedy comedy, but you can totally see a parallel universe where Odenkirk played Michael Scott and nailed it as well as Carell did." He concluded that, with Odenkirk's presence, "In about twenty seconds this became the best episode of the season."[17] Kelly West of Cinema Blend gave a moderately positive review, noting that the entry "dealt with some of the ongoing issues among the staff of Dunder Mifflin. With the exception of a pretty great guest appearance by Breaking Bad's Bob Odenkirk (Better call Saul!) and some interesting developments in the relationship department for some of the characters, the episode was fairly standard. And then came the very end, which offered an interesting reveal and a teaser of something big."[18]
IGN writer Roth Cornet awarded the episode a 6.9, denoting an "okay" episode. She called the episode "the real beginning of the end". Cornet, however, was critical of the episode's length, specifically pin-pointing the Philadelphia scenes, noting that they "went on too long". She concluded that "I feel for the writers, who I honestly believe were forced to stretch their content this season", as well as for the episode.[19] Nick Campbell of TV.com was unhappy that the episode did not show or comment on Pam and Jim's fight in the previous episode. He felt that the beginning of the dinner scene was nice, due to the two's banter. However, he felt that the end pretended as if they had not discussed the move in any previous episodes. Campbell felt that Odenkirk was used in a good way, but that was "a waste of amazing talent at the real estate office". He also felt that Dwight and Angela's kiss was a good progression for their story.[20]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode "C−", and criticized its extended nature. He said that it was "both brimming with narrative yet straining to fill its allotted time." Adams argued that elements, like Toby's visit to the prison, seemed like tacked on codas intended to increase the length of the show. He also felt that Odenkirk's performance was humorous, but dragged on too long and played the joke too far. Adams, however, was complimentary towards Angela and Dwight's subplot, calling it the most "daring" of the episode's various subplots, and saying it provided momentum for the episode.[21] Alan Sepinwall of HitFix called the episode "unpleasant', largely due to Andy's presence; he felt that the character "continues to dominate the action and crush all the goodwill generated earlier in the season". However, he was very pleased with Odenkirk's performance, calling his acting "a pretty spot-on recreation of the early years [of The Office]".[22] Bob Odenkirk's performance was later submitted by the producers of The Office for an "Outstanding Guest Actor in Comedy Series" Emmy consideration.[23]


"WUPHF.com" is the ninth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the 135th episode overall. Written by Aaron Shure and directed by Danny Leiner, the episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on November 18, 2010.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees at the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictitious Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) and Michael Scott (Steve Carell) struggle to convince coworkers who have invested in Ryan's startup company that he can make it profitable. Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) hosts a hay festival in the parking lot of the building, distracting him from fulfilling a contract to Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) to have sex. The episode received positive reviews and was nominated for the Writers Guild of America Award for Television: Episodic Comedy.
Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) has convinced Michael Scott (Steve Carell), Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker), Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) to invest in his startup business, a cross-portal messaging system housed at WUPHF.com.[a] While Ryan touts a planned "investors ski weekend", Michael learns that there is already an offer to buy out WUPHF.com, but also that Ryan only has nine days of funding left before his venture collapses. Ryan's subsequent sales pitch falls apart when he reveals that the potential buyer is the Washington University Public Health Fund, who are only interested in the domain name because it contains their initials, WUPHF. While the others demand that Ryan sell the company, Michael defends him, and because Michael is the majority shareholder in the company, his decision stands.
Pam privately tells Michael that Ryan has never viewed Michael as a best friend, and is merely taking advantage of Michael's affection and loyalty for him. Pam reminds Michael that other people have money at stake, and they will all lose money if he and Ryan do not sell the company. Michael is later upset by Ryan when he refuses to have dinner with him, and again when Ryan supports Michael's theoretical plan to get a second mortgage to fund WUPHF.com. While Michael refuses to sell the company, he pressures Ryan to save everyone's money and find a suitable course of action. Ryan, unable to make WUPHF.com profitable, decides to sell the company, to Michael's relief.
Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) hosts a hay festival in the parking lot for the Thanksgiving holiday, distracting him from a contractual obligation to have sex with Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) at her request. A frustrated Angela meets a charming, friendly man (Jack Coleman) who is attending the festival with his young son (Griffin Gluck). Angela discovers that he is a widower, and approves when he asks if he can call her sometime. Dwight appoints himself the "Hay Festival King" in the meantime, revealing that the entire purpose of the festival was to exorcise memories from his childhood, where his family would host similar hay festivals and he never was elected king for them. He arrives at his and Angela's warehouse rendezvous point to see their procreation contract has been stamped VOID, and looks stricken.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) is in the midst of a record sales streak, but Angela informs Jim that Sabre instituted a commissions cap for the year and Jim maxed out his returns. Jim talks to Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) about it, but Gabe insists that he cannot change the policy. Unmotivated to work, Jim struggles to entertain himself and is eventually reprimanded by Gabe for disrupting the work of others. Jim ends up using CEO Jo Bennet's audiobook to trick Gabe into believing Bennet is reading her audiobook to him over the phone, forcing Gabe to stay late.
"WUPHF.com" was written by co-executive producer Aaron Shure, his fifth writing credit on the series, and directed by Danny Leiner, his first Office directing credit. In a deleted scene, Michael seeks advice from Toby while the HR representative is having a webchat with his daughter; when Michael overhears Sasha talking about Toby's ex-wife's new boyfriend, Michael forgets he wanted help dealing with Ryan, and laughs at Toby's misery at the news.[citation needed]
In its original American broadcast on November 18, 2010, "WUPHF.com" was viewed by an estimated 7.28 million viewers and received a 3.8 rating/10% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, improving from the prior week's episode.[1]
For his work on this episode, Aaron Shure was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for Episodic Comedy.[2]



"Sex Ed" is the fourth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 130th episode overall. Written and directed by Paul Lieberstein, the episode aired on NBC in the United States on October 14, 2010. The episode features the return of several recurring characters, most notably Melora Hardin as Jan Levinson, Linda Purl as Helene Beesly, and Nancy Carell as Carol Stills. Actresses Amy Pietz and Amy Ryan — who portray Donna Newton and Holly Flax — only make vocal cameos, though Ryan is credited as a starring role.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) comes to work thinking he has a pimple, but it turns out to actually be a cold sore. When he is told that it is a form of herpes, Michael contacts all his ex-girlfriends—Jan, Holly, Helene, Donna, and Carol. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) holds a sex education meeting in the office hoping to learn if Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) is having sex with her boyfriend, Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods).
Along with several actresses reprising their characters, "Sex Ed" also saw the introduction of warehouse worker Nate Nickerson, played by Mark Proksch; he would go on to recur for the remainder of the series. "Sex Ed" was viewed by 7.36 million viewers and received a 3.8 rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, marking a slight increase in the ratings when compared to the previous week. The episode was also the highest-ranked NBC series of the night, but it received mixed reviews from critics, many of whom felt that Michael was characterized as too stupid and that Andy's subplot was not compelling.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) arrives to the office with a fake mustache to hide what he thinks is a pimple over his mouth. Michael soon learns that it is a cold sore, which is a form of herpes. With some prodding from Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), Michael decides to tell his former lovers he has herpes, despite not yet having gone to a doctor. He calls Donna (Amy Pietz) first, abruptly telling her to get tested. Michael then calls Holly Flax (Amy Ryan), joking around with her before they have a more serious discussion. Much to Michael's dismay, she claims that he over-romanticized their relationship, and he hangs up without telling her about the herpes. Michael and Dwight drive out to tell Carol Stills (Nancy Carell), Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin), and Pam's mother, Helene Beesly (Linda Purl).
Michael and Dwight meet with Jan, who is now a fairly successful office manager for a hospital and single mother. After Jan gives Michael a brutal description of why their relationship failed and he watches her play with her daughter Astrid, Michael reveals that he has herpes. He meets with Helene, Pam's mother, who is playing with Cece at a playground; after an awkward conversation in which she also points out his skewed memory, he insults her and walks off. He meets with Carol while she is conducting an open house. Carol attempts to be polite, but then abruptly points out his faults too. Finally, Michael calls Holly one last time, only to get her voicemail. He leaves her a heartfelt message that what she said hurt him and that when he saw all his other exes, he had not been happy to see any of them, but when he talked to her, he was happy. He says that he does not understand why she wants to downplay what they had, but he remembers their relationship perfectly and considers it special. Before hanging up, he awkwardly adds that she should be tested for herpes.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) uses the situation to host a sex education class, with the ulterior motive to learn if his former girlfriend Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) has been having sex with her current boyfriend Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods). During the lesson, he disturbs the office with pictures of genitalia, cannot come up with any negatives to sex besides STD's, and attempts to use a pencil for a condom demonstration. Distraught after realizing that they are having sex and after everyone mocks him, Andy throws a tantrum, hurling a box of pizza at the wall and storming out of the conference room. Gabe takes Andy to his cubicle and admonishes him for his behavior, revealing he is aware why Andy hosted the sex ed class. He explains to Andy that the only reason he asked Erin out was because Andy gave his blessing, which Andy reveals was just a result of his difficulty saying no to how politely Gabe asked him. Gabe tells Andy that he is going to let this whole situation slide this time and advises Andy to put Erin behind him. Andy is cheered up when he receives a generic pep talk from Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), despite Darryl having no idea what his problem is.
"Sex Ed" was written and directed by showrunner and executive producer Paul Lieberstein, who also plays Toby Flenderson on the show.[2] The episode features several return appearances of former recurring characters. Amy Ryan appears in a voice-only role as Holly Flax, who was last seen in the fifth season finale, "Company Picnic".[3] Melora Hardin appears as Jan Levinson, who was last seen in the fifth season episode, "Baby Shower".[4] Amy Pietz appears as Donna, also in a voice-only role; she had a recurring role near the end of the sixth season.[5] Linda Purl appears as Helene Beesly, who had a recurring role in the sixth season.[6] Nancy Carell, the actual wife of Steve Carell, appears as Carol Stills, who was last seen in the third season episode, "A Benihana Christmas".[7] Ryan would return later in the season as a way to provide Carell an exit from the series.[8] Hardin would make a cameo appearance in the later season seven episode "Threat Level Midnight", as well as two appearances in the ninth season episodes "The Whale" and "Couples Discount".[9][10][11] "Sex Ed" is the first episode to feature Dwight's assistant Nate, played by YouTube star Mark Proksch. After the producers of The Office saw a series of prank videos that Proksch did under the name "Kenny Strasser", they hired him to become a recurring character.[12]
The official website of The Office included one deleted scene from "Sex Ed". In the clip, Kelly asks Jim how she should deal with Ryan not completely loving her.[13]  The Season Seven DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. The cut scenes include Dwight looking up how herpes is spread, Dwight discussing how Holly brings out "a child-like wonder in Michael", Michael contacting the French-Canadian concierge he had a brief relationship with in the fifth-season episode "Business Trip", and more cut scenes from Andy's sex ed discussion. In addition, an entire subplot was deleted from the episode. This story involved the camera crew catching Pam and Jim in the middle of a fight; the crew then tries to determine what caused them to fight in the first place.[14]
Michael compares himself to Canadian pop punk musician Avril Lavigne, noting that both of them get pimples.[15] Andy sings a parody of Foreigner's 1978 hit single "Hot Blooded" about pizza.[16] Jan mentions that she released "an album of Doris Day covers on [her] own label".[17]
"Sex Ed" first aired on NBC on October 14, 2010.[18] In its original American broadcast it was viewed by an estimated 7.36 million viewers and received a 3.8 rating/10 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that 3.8 percent of all 18- to 49-year-old households watched the episode, and ten percent of that demographic had their televisions tuned to the channel at any point. This marked a slight increase in viewers from the previous episode.[19][20]
Jonathan Teigland of Starpulse called the episode "simple and silly".[21] He applauded the final scene with Holly, writing that it was the "best" of Michael's reconnection with his ex-girlfriends.[21] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode three out of five stars, calling it "a miss".[22] He felt that none of the encounters with Michael's former girlfriends were "funny", and that "the meetings themselves left a lot to be desired".[22] He was also critical of Andy's subplot, writing that "very little about the execution worked."[22] Forcella did, however, call Michael's conversation with Holly "classic".[22]
Myles McNutt of The A.V. Club gave the episode a "C+" and felt that Michael's antics—largely the fact that he easily believes he has herpes—were too stupid to be believable; however, he felt that the episode's main story largely worked as planned. However, McNutt panned the episode's secondary story focusing on Andy, noting that it "lazily tapped into the series' basic structure".[23] He ultimately concluded that "without any particularly strong jokes, it fell entirely on Andy's character, and there just wasn't enough there to support it".[23] Alan Sepinwall of HitFix wrote that, while Michael's story "had its moments", it was largely "creepy and uncomfortable".[17] He also criticized Andy's characterization, noting that, in the episode, he was written extremely similar to Michael.[17]
The episode served as inspiration for the Brazilian web series Viral.[24]



"Vandalism" is the fourteenth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 190th episode overall. The episode was written by Owen Ellickson. It was directed by Lee Kirk, who is series star Jenna Fischer's husband. It originally aired on NBC on January 31, 2013. The episode guest stars Chris Diamantopoulos as Brian the boom mike operator, Mark Proksch as Nate, Brad William Henke as Frank, and Ameenah Kaplan as Val.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, someone vandalizes Pam Halpert's warehouse mural. Distraught, she enlists Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) to help her track down the vandal. Meanwhile, in their Philadelphia apartment, Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) is uncomfortable with Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) uncleanliness. Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) begrudgingly allows Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) to attend her son Phillip's first birthday party.
The episode received mixed reviews from television critics; many felt that the subplot involving Brian (Diamantopoulos) being attracted to Pam was shoehorned into the series and served little function other than to create superfluous drama. The episode was viewed by 3.97 million viewers and received a 1.9/5 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. Although the episode ranked first in its half-hour timeslot, it tied with the series finale of 30 Rock to be the second highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Someone vandalizes Pam Halpert's (Jenna Fischer) warehouse mural. Distraught, she demands to know who was responsible, but the warehouse workers remain silent to protect their coworker. She then tries appealing to the sympathies of the other office workers, but with her husband Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) off in Philadelphia and regional manager Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) still away in the Bahamas, only Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) show any interest. The three lure warehouse worker Nate (Mark Proksch) into the foreman's office, under the pretense of telling him that his mother is dying, and interrogate him in isolation; Nate soon cracks and identifies Frank (Brad William Henke) as the vandal. They take the matter to human resources, and Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) holds a meeting between the involved parties. Pam, presumably at Toby's suggestion, apologizes for having possibly infringed on Frank's space by using the warehouse to paint her mural, but Frank in response insults Pam and her mural profanely and insists that his drawing of butts was funny. Toby and Nellie both take Frank's side out of intimidation, so Pam and Dwight take things into their own hands by painting a grotesque nude man on Frank's truck with washable paint. As Pam tells the documentary crew that she feels it is appropriate that she used her art to enact her revenge for the vandalism, Frank shows up yelling in anger and lunges at Pam. Brian (Chris Diamantopoulos), the crew's boom mic operator, intervenes by hitting Frank across the face with his mic. Frank and Brian are subsequently fired by their respective employers. As Brian leaves, he tells Pam that he will always be there for her if she needs someone.
In their Philadelphia apartment, Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) and Jim find their living styles are increasingly clashing. Jim is slovenly, leaving dirty dishes to soak in the sink until someone else washes them, while Darryl is so fastidious about his possessions that he puts labels with his name on all of them, even a bag of flour. When Darryl takes issue with Jim using his labeled coffee mug, the two begin bickering. Eventually the two come to understand each other's habits better, and relieve tension by playing a video game together.
Angela (Angela Kinsey) and Robert Lipton (Jack Coleman) are celebrating their son Phillip's first birthday with a gathering of wealthy political allies. Angela is shocked to learn that Robert invited his lover Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) to the party after she told Robert she did not want him there. Angela invites Dwight (her own extramarital lover) in retaliation, but he scorns the invitation in order to help Pam with her investigation. Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) hears of this and eagerly volunteers to go in Dwight's place. Angela had to accept since not doing so meant Kevin would have to take care of accounting by himself. Oscar, who believes he was invited because Robert is in love with him, is hurt when he finds out that he was invited to boost Robert's opinion in the polls among Latino voters. During the taking of a group photo, Robert has Oscar stand in a spot where he almost completely blocks off Angela, and Oscar and Angela begin to bicker with each other. After the party, Robert rebukes them for their behavior and admonishes them to do better in the future. However, Kevin interrupts to tell Robert that he enjoyed the food, and that Robert is a terrible person for treating Angela and Oscar strictly as a means to gain political support, secretly pleasing Angela and Oscar.
"Vandalism" was written by supervising producer Owen Ellickson, making it his third writing credit for the series.[2] It was directed by Lee Kirk.[2] This marks his first directorial entry for the series, although he had previously guest starred as the minor character Clark in the sixth season episode "The Delivery".[2][3] Kirk is also Fischer's husband.[3][4][5] The episode guest stars Diamantopoulos as Brian the boom mike operator, his third appearance after the preceding two episodes. Proksch returns as Nate, as does Kaplan as Val. This is the first episode to feature Henke as Frank.[2] Daniels had teased in an interview that one character would be fired from the show "in Episode 15".[6] Although "Vandalism" was the fourteenth episode aired, it was actually the fifteenth produced, based on production numbers.[1]
"Vandalism" originally aired right after "Junior Salesman" on NBC on January 31, 2013.[1] In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by 3.97 million viewers, making it the second episode  in the series, after the earlier ninth season entry "The Target", to dip below the 4 million threshold.[7][8] It received a 1.9 rating/5 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[8] This means that it was seen by 1.9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 5 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[8] The Office ranked first in its half hour timeslot, and tied with the series finale of 30 Rock to be the second highest-rated NBC series of the night, although 30 Rock garnered more viewers. Both the finale of 30 Rock and "Vandalism" were beaten by "Junior Salesman".[8]
Michael Tedder of Vulture awarded the episode—along with "Junior Salesman"—four stars out of five. He enjoyed Kevin's telling off the Senator for his poor treatment of his friends and family, and said "that it came with Kevin's halting delivery just made it better." However, he was critical of the Brian subplot, calling it "the least interesting way this camera crew reveal could have gone".[9] Roth Cornet of IGN awarded the episode a 7 out of 10, denoting a "good" episode. Despite noting that the show itself was still good in comparison to much of television, Cornet wrote that the episode is an example of the "danger of needlessly dragging things out, as we have seen the waste of ending things before they have had the opportunity to reach their full potential in the past." Cornet praised Kevin's "truth bomb", writing that it "worked beautifully", but she called "the 'man behind the curtain' reveal ... a bitter disappointment" and a "cop-out" to engage the audience.[10]
Brett Davinger of The California Literary Review called Brian's antics "creepy", and wondered if the character would begin to emulate the characteristics of the eighth season character Cathy, who attempted to cheat with Jim. He called the Jim and Darryl story filler, but was more positive about Oscar and Kevin's story, noting that the ending was "a short segment, but well done".[11] Bonnie Stiernberg of Paste magazine wrote that the idea of Brian temporarily dividing Pam and Jim led to "one of the more out-of-the-box episodes" of the series. However, she felt that the writers should have "thought of [the idea] sometime last season" and that the concept seemed forced. Stiernberg paralleled the quick buildup to Pam and Brian's relationship unfavorably to the slow buildup of Pam and Jim's initial attraction to each other.[12] Nick Campbell of TV.com wrote that "Vandalism"—along with "Junior Salesman"—was "so much sharper than last week's trial in Dullsville". He felt that the episode was "important", because it continued the plot involving Brian. Campbell initially was not pleased with the development, but said that the plot will be "the ultimate test of the show's romantic theory" that "the meek men (the proletariat) constantly and righteously upending the established and neglectful men (the bourgeoisie) in the lives of The Office's womenfolk".[13]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "C−" and largely criticized the introduction of Brian as a potential love interest for Pam. He was especially critical of the fight scene, saying Brian coming to Pam's rescue was an unnecessary contrivance, and that having Dwight in the role of Pam's defender would have been a more fitting resolution to the subplot. Adams, however, was complimentary towards Kevin's part in the episode, and called it a flash "of late-period Office at its very best".[14] Casey Gillis of The News & Advance said the overall success of the ninth season of The Office was hurt by "Vandalism", as well as "Junior Salesman". She wrote that, while the episode "would have been enjoyable by" itself, after Brian defended Pam "the show sailed right over that shark".[15]


"Golden Ticket" is the nineteenth episode of the fifth season of the television series The Office and the 91st overall episode of the series. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on March 12, 2009.
In the episode, Michael excitedly starts a Willy Wonka-inspired promotional gimmick providing discounts to customers who receive golden tickets, then tries to blame the idea on Dwight when the promotion appears to cost the company a large amount of money. In a B story, Kevin receives conflicting romantic advice from Andy, Jim and Pam.
The episode was written by Mindy Kaling and directed by Randall Einhorn. It received mixed reviews from critics, and many criticized the selfishness and mean behavior of Michael Scott in the episode. According to Nielsen ratings, "Golden Ticket" was watched by 7.7 million overall viewers the week it aired.
Michael Scott, inspired by the film Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory, decides to put five "golden tickets" randomly into five different boxes of paper that will provide Dunder Mifflin clients with a ten percent discount for one year. Michael is excited about the promotional gimmick, which prompts him to dress and act like Wonka. However, because Michael distributed all the tickets on the same day in the same small area of the warehouse, all five golden tickets go to their biggest client, the Blue Cross of Pennsylvania; because Michael did not specify "limit one per customer", the company is owed a fifty percent discount. As a result, the Scranton branch is expected to lose a significant amount of revenue which could shut down the branch. When Chief Financial Officer David Wallace demands to know who is responsible, Michael claims Dwight Schrute thought of the idea. Michael convinces Dwight to take the fall, insisting that Michael needs the job more than Dwight.
David Wallace comes to the Scranton branch and says the client was so pleased with the discount that they made the company their exclusive provider of office supplies. Grateful, David congratulates Dwight for the idea, and Dwight accepts the credit. Michael is shocked and upset. The rest of the office, still angry at Michael for his near-disastrous idea, play along with Wallace's misunderstanding and congratulate Dwight. David sets up a conference call with the marketing department so Dwight can explain his golden ticket promotion. Michael interrupts and goads Dwight into revealing the idea actually came from Michael. As Michael and Dwight bicker, a frustrated David leaves the office, appearing indifferent about the outcome.
Kevin Malone seeks advice on how to start a relationship with Lynn, the woman he socialized with at the Valentine's Day singles mixer (from the episode "Blood Drive"). Andy Bernard, still upset from his broken engagement with Angela Martin, suggests that Kevin be mean to Lynn, providing only backhanded compliments and ignoring her calls. Jim Halpert suggests he ask her out, but not immediately. Pam Beesly suggests he ask her out immediately and not be afraid to express himself to her. When Lynn visits the office, Kevin tells her his thoughts directly, saying that she has a nice smile and he would like to take her out to dinner and a movie. She accepts. Kevin then accidentally says "Nice...boobs", but Lynn seems flattered by the statement.
The official The Office website included three cut scenes from "Golden Ticket". One 72-second clip includes Michael eavesdropping from the men's bathroom on Angela, Oscar, Kelly and Meredith, who discuss how unfairly Michael is treating Dwight in making him take the fall over the failed golden ticket promotion. Kelly also makes the remark, "I hope Dwight gets fired and they get a hot new guy to replace him," to which Oscar replies, "Seriously."[1] In another 52-second scene, Michael asks Dwight to go on a stroll, but Dwight suggests turning it into a "power stroll", which he prepares Michael for by applying sunscreen to his face.[2] And in a follow-up to the scene where workers discuss that Michael should be fired, a visibly angry and upset Michael confronts the office. When he says "Can any of you imagine this office without me?" everyone gleefully raises their hands, but Michael then asks them if they've thought about what kind of terrible person they could get to replace him; he then pointedly says that they could get someone who knows they don't actually need three accountants (Oscar, Kevin and Angela look visibly ashamed that Michael knew this going back to season 2's "Halloween" episode but has never taken any action about it) or someone who doesn't approve of romantic relationships and would transfer one or both people to separate branches (Jim and Pam in turn get this message and look thoughtful), and tells the office that they should mind what they're saying about him "when I'm hiding in the bathroom pretending to be pooping."
The NBC site also featured more than two minutes' worth of clips involving the subplot between Kevin and Lynne, including Andy discussing his new method of being mean to women while courting dates, in response to his recent failed engagement with Angela. Among the deleted scenes are Kevin telling Lynn he will be too busy for three weeks to talk to her and giving a backhanded compliment to her shirt, both at Andy's suggestion.[3]
The golden ticket promotional gimmick, from which the episode receives its title, is a reference to the golden tickets from the 1964 Roald Dahl novel, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, as well as the 1971 and 2005 film adaptations of the book. Throughout the first half of the episode, Michael wears a purple suit and top hat similar to Willy Wonka, the character responsible for the promotion from which this episode takes its name. Blue Cross of Pennsylvania, the Dunder Mifflin client who receives the golden tickets, is a real-life division of Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, an American health insurance company. After throwing away the Willy Wonka outfit, Michael wears a gray T-shirt advertising the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Pioneers, a minor-league arena football team. One of the excuses Michael uses to avoid David's phone calls is that he is attending an "Obama fashion show", a reference to U.S. President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama.[4]
Dwight Schrute makes knock-knock jokes involving the KGB, the secret police and intelligence agency for the Soviet Union. Michael also makes a knock-knock joke involving Buddha, with the punch-line that Pam "buttah" (butter, pronounced like Buddha) a slice of bread. Gautama Buddha was a spiritual teacher in the South Asian country Nepal who founded the religion Buddhism.[5][6] During an office meeting in which Michael asks his employees to come up with other golden ticket-like ideas, Andy suggests the breakfast cereal brand Golden Grahams and American sitcom The Golden Girls before confessing he does not understand the assignment.[6]
In its original American broadcast on March 12, 2009,[7] "Golden Ticket" was watched by 7.7 million overall viewers and received a Nielsen rating of 4.1 among adults aged between 18 and 49, despite directly competing with ABC's Grey's Anatomy and CBS's CSI: Crime Scene Investigation. For the week of March 9–15, the episode ranked number 10 among adults 18–49, within two shares of the time-period lead in that age group. "Golden Ticket" was number four among all programs in adults 18–34, behind Grey's Anatomy and the Tuesday and Wednesday editions of American Idol. In the 9 to 9:30 p.m. time slot, the episode also ranked number one among men 18–34 and men 18–49, tied with Grey's Anatomy for number one among the broadcast networks in adults 18–34, and tied with CSI for number two among adults 18–49.[8]
"What's the worst thing Michael Scott has ever done? Not the most embarrassing, dumbest, most offensive, or most self-defeating action. We mean the cruelest, most selfish, most venal thing he's ever done. ... Michael has always been vain and deluded, but we've never been asked to think of him as truly bad. But this episode comes awfully close to doing that."
Will Leitch, New York magazine[9]"Golden Ticket" received mixed reviews, with several reviewers criticizing the selfish and mean behavior of Michael. In a New York magazine article entitled "Michael Finally Goes Too Far", Will Leitch describes it as "one of the funnier recent episodes", but found Michael's willingness to sell out Dwight unsettling: "Usually, when he's about to do something over-the-top (like plant drugs on Toby), he backs off at the last second. This time, he's willing to go all the way and sell out Dwight, his most loyal friend. It's a little jarring." Leitch, however, said the sweetness of the subplot involving Kevin and Lynne offset some of the darker aspects of the episode, and praised several of the jokes including Michael's "Shoe-La-La" shoe store idea, Dwight's idea for a "Horse Boat" invention and the KGB knock-knock jokes.[9]
Kona Gallagher, of TV Squad, praised "Golden Ticket", especially the final act: "Between Michael's face and Dwight's conference call, the last ten minutes of this episode were absolutely golden." Gallagher said the episode returned to "season one levels of Michael Scott stupidity", and particularly liked the way Dwight so readily accepted credit once the golden ticket promotion proved to be a success.[10] Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club gave "Golden Ticket" an A− grade and particularly praised Steve Carell's Willy Wonka impression and the way Michael tried to distance himself after the promotional idea went bad. Rabin said, "Tonight's episode lacked a certain gravity but it delivered the goods, comedy-wise." He also pointed out that the script was technically illogical in that Michael pretended he did not come up with the golden ticket idea despite the documentary camera crew filming his earlier discussions about it.[11]
Entertainment Weekly writer Whitney Pastorek described the episode as "kind of cute tonight, and kind of flat in places, and kind of sad." Pastorek said one of the most interesting aspects of "Golden Ticket" was the relationship between Michael and Dwight: "After their respective failed romances with Holly and Angela, Michael and Dwight may be coming to the awkward realization that the most successful relationship in either of their lives is with one another, and that may be causing a little tension."[5] Travis Fickett of IGN said "Golden Ticket" was a "solid offering", but felt it lacked any big moments and fit too much of a status quo mold he feels other recent episodes had fallen into. Fickett said it was "fun to watch Michael squirm" both when he thought he was in trouble, and when he was robbed credit for his good idea; he also liked when Jim encouraged Dwight not to take the fall for Michael, and when the others in the office rallied around Dwight when David Wallace gave Dwight credit for the success.[12]
Alan Sepinwall, television writer for The Star-Ledger, said Michael acted so "nakedly selfish and unfeeling" that it made the episode unpleasant to watch: "If last week's 'Blood Drive' gave us Michael at his most human and sympathetic, then 'Golden Ticket' showed how a human Michael could also be a monster." However, Sepinwall said he did think the subplot involving Kevin receiving romantic advice was funny and sweet: "Brian Baumgartner's just been aces the last two weeks, and if it hadn't been for this story, I might have found 'Golden Ticket' unbearable."[13] Dan Hopper of VH1's Best Week Ever strongly criticized the episode and the behavior of the characters: "Why was every single character on last night's Willy Wonka episode acting like a complete idiot? Not 'idiot' in the sense that the characters are always dumb and goofy in an amusing way, but 'idiot' as in 'none of these human beings would ever act this way and this is really frustrating to watch?'"[14]
"Golden Ticket" was voted the eleventh-highest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 8.33 out of 10.[15]


"Happy Hour" is the twenty-first episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 121st episode overall. It originally aired March 25, 2010 on NBC.
In the episode, Oscar arranges a happy hour with the warehouse staff so he can flirt with Matt. Pam is excited to see the staff and brings a date for Michael, but Michael turns into an alter ego named "Date Mike" who catches the eye of the bar manager. Meanwhile, Andy and Erin have begun a relationship but are keeping it a secret to avoid drama. Dwight rethinks his pre-natal contract with Angela after he sees Isabel again.
It was written by B. J. Novak and directed by Matt Sohn. "Happy Hour" got positive reviews, however, according to Nielsen ratings, the episode was viewed by 7.28 million viewers coming third in its timeslot and falling 3% from last week and becoming the lowest rated episode of the season.[1]
In the cold open, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is doing push-ups, and agrees to let anyone who beats his record of "25 and one 'girl push up'" go home early. Most of the office fails and Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) is the only person to succeed. Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) likens it to "one of those stories where a mother lifts a car to save her baby." Though annoyed at first, Michael eventually starts cheering for Stanley and applauds with the rest of the office when Stanley leaves for the day.
Wanting to spend more time with the new warehouse worker Matt (Sam Daly), Oscar asks Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) to organize a happy hour outing between the office employees and the warehouse workers. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) invites Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer), who is unusually excited to see everyone. They invite a friend of hers, Julie (Laurie Naughton Okin), to meet Michael. Julie seems to take a liking to Michael as she laughs at everything he says, but when Michael learns they invited Julie specifically for him, he adopts a new persona called "Date Mike" that he says is inspired by the winners and losers of reality TV dating shows and starts acting erratic and unpredictable. He causes a scene to the point where the manager, Donna (Amy Pietz), threatens to throw him out. Michael initially stands down, but then decides to confront Donna about what happened. The two end up hitting it off and she offers him a free lunch at the bar. Julie notices this and leaves.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) and Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) do their best to keep their relationship under wraps because of the drama it might bring if they go public, even though everyone seems to know already. They first try to keep their distance from each other. They then attempt to flirt with other bar patrons, but when Erin takes the flirting too far, they end up having an argument in the photo booth. Realizing that hiding their relationship has caused too much drama, Andy publicly announces their relationship on the PA system.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) rethinks his pre-natal contract with Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) when Isabel (Kelen Coleman) arrives at the bar. Dwight and Isabel have fun playing Whac-A-Mole together while Angela tries to get in on the fun. Dwight thinks that Isabel would be better suited to have his children, so he tells Angela he is canceling the contract, prompting Angela to get a summons to court. When she confronts Dwight about the contract in front of Isabel, Isabel "whacks" Angela on the head and scares her off. Dwight gives Isabel a passionate kiss afterward.
On a couple of occasions, Kevin indulges his bad-taste humor by making baby-crying noises near Pam, hoping the sound will cause her nipples to leak milk. It does not work, but later when Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) comes past weeping, it suddenly does.
Oscar is upset that Matt did not show up with the rest of them, prompting Darryl to tell Oscar that they have nothing in common, but when Matt finally shows up, Oscar gets excited and the two shoot hoops together. At the end of the episode, Darryl asks the long-working yet newly featured Japanese warehouse worker, Hide, to recount his story about how he used to be a heart surgeon. Hide explains how he failed a heart operation on a Yakuza boss, prompting him to flee to the United States, where Darryl gave him a job. After doing so, Hide then reveals that he failed that heart operation purposely, claiming that he is "good surgeon".
The episode is written by B. J. Novak, his first writing credit for the season and directed by Matt Sohn, his first directing credit of the season.[2]
In its original American broadcast, "Happy Hour" was watched by 7.28 million viewers, with a 3.5 rating and a 10 share in the 18–49 demographic.[1]
The episode received positive reviews. Dan Phillips of IGN gave the episode an 8 saying it was "impressive" and "In the end, there were enough laughs to be had from most of the main love connections and quick asides to call 'Happy Hour' a success – even if the jokes weren't all necessarily fresh."[3] Darren Fanich of Entertainment Weekly gave the episode a positive review saying "Did you like 'Happy Hour,' viewers? It’s usually a bad sign when sitcoms hit the point where everybody falls in love with everyone else, but to me, every romance on The Office feels realistic and weird in its own specific way."[4] Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club gave the episode a B+ saying "Yes, tonight was just like Valentine’s Day only not terrible. Actually, it was nothing like Valentine’s Day except that it involved love and a large ensemble."[5] Joel Keller of the TV Squad gave the episode a positive review saying "But you know what I'm getting at. The tone, pacing, and comedy of this episode continues the recent trend of The Office getting back to what made people love it to begin with. And, yes, part of that means that Michael is going to make an ass of himself. But at least the season six version of Michael somehow gets a little bit of hope mixed in with his desperation stew."[6] Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger gave the episode a mixed review said "Overall, though, I'd say the good outweighed the bad in this one, but just barely".[7] On the OfficeTally, the episode got an 8.43/10.[2]


"Valentine's Day" is the sixteenth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's twenty-second episode overall. Written by Michael Schur and directed by Greg Daniels, the episode first aired in the United States on February 9, 2006 on NBC. The episode guest stars Craig Anton, Andy Buckley, Charles Esten, and Conan O'Brien as himself.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) travels to New York City to give a presentation, but accidentally tells everyone that he "hooked up" with Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin). Meanwhile, the rest of the office is jealous when Phyllis Lapin's (Phyllis Smith) boyfriend Bob Vance gives her several gifts. Also, Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) gives Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) a bobblehead model of himself.
The episode was the first time that Pam Beesly (Fischer) had a different hairstyle. In addition, many of the scenes were improvised, including Dwight's line about ham and Michael's antics in New York. "Valentine's Day" received mostly positive reviews from television critics and was watched by 8.95 million viewers.
Before a Valentine's Day meeting at the corporate offices in New York City with Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) and the new CFO David Wallace (Andy Buckley), Michael Scott (Steve Carell), defending Jan to the other branch managers, lets slip that he and Jan "hooked up". At the meeting, Michael shows a sentimental video about the staff at his branch called "The Faces of Scranton" before providing data on the financial status of his branch as asked. Craig (Craig Anton), from the Albany branch, is completely unprepared for the meeting and attempts to cover for it by insinuating that Jan is giving Michael preferential treatment because of the supposed sexual encounter between them. Due to Wallace hearing this accusation, Jan is convinced that her career is over. Michael defuses the situation by telling the CFO that it was a bad joke and Jan is innocent of any unethical behavior. As Michael leaves, Jan kisses him in the elevator, but groans when she realizes they were caught on camera.
Back in the office, Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) gives Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) a "Dwight" bobblehead doll, and he gives her a key to his home. Phyllis Lapin (Phyllis Smith) is inundated with gifts from her boyfriend Bob Vance (Robert R. Shafer), while Pam Beesly is irritated with Roy Anderson (David Denman) when the only thing he gives her for Valentine's Day is the promise of the "best sex of [her] life". Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) is forced to listen to Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) talk about her recent date with Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), who immediately regrets the entire encounter because it happened the day before Valentine's Day. He then turns down Kelly for another date on Valentine's Day. At the end of the day, Jim tells Pam "Happy Valentine's Day" and she watches him longingly as he leaves.
This episode was the fourth episode of the series directed by series creator Greg Daniels. Daniels had previously directed the first season episode "Basketball", along with the second season episodes "The Dundies" and "The Client". "Valentine's Day" was written by Michael Schur, who plays Dwight's Amish cousin Mose.[2] In the DVD commentary for this episode, Greg Daniels described how some of Michael's actions in this episode, such as having the requested branch info, unlike Craig, and saving Jan's job by deflecting Craig's comments when talking to David Wallace, were scripted to show how he plausibly remains employed.[3]
For the first time ever on The Office, Pam Beesly's (Jenna Fischer) hair is in a different style. Several hairstyles were shown to Greg Daniels before the one used in the episode was selected.[4] Dwight's line about a ham being a romantic gift was written during filming on the set. The writers did not have a punchline in the scene, so they came up with several alternatives, including ham, as well as "a boombox".[5] Most of the street scenes in New York City were improvised. They had to be kept short because crowds quickly formed around Steve Carell when he was recognized.[3] Conan O'Brien appeared in a cameo in the episode. He previously worked with Daniels on the writing staffs for Not Necessarily the News, Saturday Night Live and The Simpsons and the two also went to Harvard University together.[3][6]
The Season Two DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Michael handing out plastic roses, Michael choosing the most attractive part of a woman, Creed calling everybody "Ace", Michael meeting Devon in New York, the Vance Refrigeration employees getting into a fistfight, Michael wondering why his meeting is on Valentine's Day, Jim learning that Dwight has a girlfriend, and Kevin learning that his fiancée has returned to town.[7]
Michael notes that New York is the "city so nice they named it twice".[8] He then proceeds to explain that the other name is Manhattan, failing to realize the limerick refers to the city of New York, which also lies in the state of New York. Later, he eats pizza at a Sbarro restaurant, a chain restaurant, but calls it his "favorite New York pizza joint".[8] At Rockefeller Center, Michael thinks he sees Tina Fey, but it turns out to be a random person. Unbeknownst to Michael, Conan O'Brien walks past him. Near the end of the episode, Michael is posing in front of a Broadway sign for Fiddler on the Roof, and he says "Oy, vey! Schmear!" in a Yiddish accent. Michael's "Faces of Scranton" video plays over "With or Without You" by the Irish rock band U2. Michael later quotes a line from the 1980 comedy film Airplane! when he talks to Jan: "Don't call me Shirley".[8]
When preparing to enter the Dunder Mifflin office for his presentation, Michael is seen sitting by the fountain in front of the tower at 1251 Sixth Avenue,[9] directly across the street from Rockefeller Center. He gets up and walks toward the street, then is seen speaking to the camera in the lobby of the Simon & Schuster building at 1230 6th Avenue, indicating that Dunder Mifflin corporate has offices in that building.[9]
"Valentine's Day" originally aired on NBC in the United States on February 9, 2006.[10] The episode was viewed by 8.95 million viewers.[11] This marked a dramatic improvement from the previous episode "Boys and Girls", which was viewed by only 5.42 million viewers.[12]
"Valentine's Day" received mostly positive reviews. Michael Sciannamea of TV Squad wrote that "The Office continues to deliver outstanding episodes week after week."[13] Sciannamea went on to say that the episode was "one of their best" and that it left him "wanting more".[13] "M. Giant" of Television Without Pity graded the episode with a "A".[8] Brendan Babish of DVD Verdict was pleased with the entry and awarded it an "A−". He named the highlight of the episode "Michael's overwrought 'The Faces of Scranton' presentation played over U2's 'With or Without You.'"[14] Betsy Bozdech of DVD Journal called the episode "memorable" and noted that it illustrated Pam and Jim's relationship ebb and flow.[15] Francis RizzoIII of DVD Talk declared that Ryan's statement about beginning to date Kelly before Valentine's Day was "one of the funniest lines in the entire season."[16]
After the episode, fans wanted their own bobblehead dolls of Dwight. A petition was started to get NBC to sell them at their online store. NBC responded by creating an initial run of 4,000 bobblehead dolls, which sold out almost immediately. The network decided to make more, and since then, the bobblehead has become the best-selling merchandise on the NBC website, and has sold over 150,000 units.[17]


"Finale" is the series finale of the American comedy television series The Office. It serves as the 24th and 25th episodes of the ninth season, and the 200th and 201st episodes of the series overall. The episode was written by series developer and executive producer Greg Daniels and directed by Ken Kwapis, who directed the series' pilot episode. It originally aired on NBC on May 16, 2013, preceded by an hour-long series retrospective.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, which takes place a year after the previous episode "A.A.R.M.", present and past employees of Dunder Mifflin gather for the wedding of Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), during which Michael Scott (Steve Carell) returns to serve as Dwight's best man. In addition, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) finally decide to pursue Jim's dream of working in sports marketing. Finally, everyone comes together for a final round of interviews and goodbyes.
The initial idea for the finale, involving the Q&A, was thought of by Daniels during production of the third season. The episode features the return of many recurring characters, as well as Carell, whose return was kept secret for many months and went uncredited. B. J. Novak and Mindy Kaling, who departed the series after "New Guys", are again credited as stars for reprising their roles as Ryan Howard and Kelly Kapoor. Many members of the show's crew—such as episode writer Daniels—made cameos in the episode as various background characters, and then-Saturday Night Live stars Bill Hader and Seth Meyers appear as themselves.
The episode was viewed by an estimated 5.69 million viewers and received 3.0 rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, making it the highest-rated episode of the series since the eighth season installment, "Pool Party". "Finale" received critical acclaim, with many critics complimenting the writers for wrapping up the storylines for most of the characters. Critics also praised Carell's cameo, with many arguing that it was perfectly executed. This episode received three Primetime Emmy Award nominations for the 65th Primetime Emmy Awards, and won for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series.
At the end of the previous episode, "A.A.R.M.", the in-universe documentary The Office: An American Workplace aired. Subsequent to this event, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) has been promoted to the regional manager of Dunder Mifflin's Scranton branch; he and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) have also agreed to be married. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), after being humiliated with his talent show audition tape going viral on the internet, has found a job at his alma mater Cornell University. Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) has helped Athlead (now named "Athleap") open a branch in Austin, Texas. Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) is enjoying retirement in Florida, and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), after having been fired by Dwight, now owns a bar. Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) has moved to New York City to start a career as a writer, Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) has moved to Poland, Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) has faked his death, and Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) is preparing to run for a Pennsylvania State Senate seat.
One year after the documentary has aired, the film crew has returned to shoot footage for DVD bonus features. Dwight and Angela are arranging their wedding, and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) has been appointed the best man. Jim plans a series of "good surprises" for Dwight's bachelor party, and the party consists of most of the current and former male employees. The group has Dwight fire a bazooka and receive a lap dance from Elizabeth the Stripper (Jackie Debatin), but Dwight remains oblivious to the stripper's identity, to Jim's delight. At Angela's bachelorette party, the attendees also hire a stripper for entertainment. However, they are horrified to see that the stripper is Meredith Palmer's (Kate Flannery) son, Jake (Spencer Daniels). Later, Dwight's cousin Mose (Michael Schur) kidnaps Angela as part of the Schrute tradition and takes her to a bar owned by Kevin. Dwight tracks down his fiancée and, upon being confronted by Kevin, tells him that his firing was not personal but based solely on his poor job performance, which cheers Kevin up.
The following day, a panel comprising the office workers is held so that audience members can ask them questions. Dunder Mifflin CEO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) expresses his distaste for the documentary, and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) is pressed with questions about why she did not allow Jim to follow his dream after he has paid her so many romantic gestures. At the panel, Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) also meets her birth parents (Ed Begley Jr. and Joan Cusack), who had put her up for adoption.
On the day of the wedding, Jim tells Dwight that under Schrute tradition, he is not allowed to be best man as he is younger than him. Jim surprises him with the arrival of Michael Scott (Steve Carell); when Dwight expresses his surprise at Michael coming to the event, Michael replies with an emotional "that's what she said" joke. The wedding proceeds in Schrute tradition with Michael as Dwight's new best man. When Jim and Pam briefly return home, Jim is surprised to find Carol Stills (Nancy Carell) showing their house to another couple. Pam admits that she has been showing the house for two months. She wants to repay Jim for all his romantic gestures and says she wants him to go to Athleap in Austin, at which point the couple seeing the house make an offer.
Jim and Pam go to an after party at the warehouse where they inform an elated Darryl of their plans. Pam then unveils a new painted mural depicting the history of the Scranton branch. A final picture is taken with the employees and the camera crew before the employees go back up to the office for a final toast. Jim and Pam tell Dwight they are quitting, but Dwight fires them instead so he can give them hefty severance packages, as a last gesture of friendship. The employees give one last round of interviews before leaving. The episode ends with Pam taking her watercolor of the office building that Michael bought from her in the third-season episode "Business School", which then transitions into the closing shot of the actual Dunder Mifflin Paper Company Scranton Branch Building.
"Finale" was written by series developer and showrunner Greg Daniels, making it his second writing credit for the year, after the season debut "New Guys", and his 12th writing credit overall.[2][3] It was directed by Ken Kwapis, who had originally directed the series' pilot episode.[4] Daniels joked that Kwapis was "the country vet who birthed this puppy" and had come "back to put it down".[5] Prior to directing "Finale", he also directed the fifth season episode "Company Picnic".[6] The initial idea for the finale was thought of by Daniels during production of the third season, described as "a reunion show", in the fashion of the reality show cast discussions common on reality shows like Survivor.[7] Daniels, at one point, approached Jeff Probst, the host of Survivor, to appear in the finale as a moderator for the fictional reunion, although he declined.[7] The initial table read for the episode took place on March 4, 2013.[8] Filming commenced on March 6.[9] According to Jenna Fischer, the episode took nine days to film, with the cast devoting 12 hours a day to the episode.[10] The finale was described as "ambitious", featuring multiple location shoots, including one in an AT&T Office Building, which stood in for the Scranton Cultural Center.[7] Filming for the episode and series as a whole came to an end on March 16, 2013.[11] Wilson later tweeted a picture of the empty set after all filming had been finished.[12]
Originally, the episode was supposed to be the 23rd and 24th episodes of the season, which would have meant that the series aired exactly 200 episodes. However, the series' penultimate episode was elongated into 2 separate episodes, resulting in "Finale" being the 24th and 25th episodes of the season. This meant that the last part of "Finale" is the series' 201st episode.[13] Once filming finished Daniels, in an interview with TVLine, expressed his hope to expand the episode, stating, "I was very excited with the footage we got ... It's very big. I'm going to beg NBC to super-size it or extend it."[14] Daniels later commented that when the editors cut together the first act, it was 23 minutes long; this is much longer than a normal first act for an hour long episode of television.[15] In response, OfficeTally—the largest fan site for the series—started an online petition to supersize the finale, similar to the petition to expand the second-season finale, "Casino Night".[15] By May 2, the petition had received over 20,000 signatures.[15] On May 7, it was announced that NBC had extended the episode by 15 minutes, meaning that the episode would air in a 75-minute time slot.[16] The episode is approximately 52 minutes in length.[17]
The series finale guest stars Rachael Harris, Dakota Johnson, Joan Cusack, Ed Begley Jr., and Malcolm Barrett.[18] The episode features the return of several of the series' actors and actresses, including former series writers and stars B. J. Novak and Mindy Kaling, as well as Andy Buckley, Robert R. Shafer, Michael Schur, and Matt Jones.[18] Other minor recurring characters also make appearances, such as Nancy Carell as Carol Stills (who played the recurring role as Michael's real-estate agent and short-time girlfriend), Sendhil Ramamurthy as Ravi (who first appeared in the eighth-season episode "Angry Andy"), Eric Wareheim as Gabor (who first appeared in the earlier ninth-season episode "Junior Salesman"), James Urbaniak as Rolf (who first appeared in the fifth-season episode "Company Picnic"), Jackie Debatin as Elizabeth (who first appeared in the third-season episode "Ben Franklin"), Devon Abner as Devon (who was a former Dunder Mifflin employee fired in second-season episode "Halloween"), and Spencer Daniels as Jake Palmer (who first played Meredith's son in the second-season episode "Take Your Daughter to Work Day").[3][19][20] The episode also features Bill Hader and Seth Meyers playing themselves.[3][20]
Many members of the show's crew made cameos in the episode. The documentary crewman's voice that speaks to Dwight was played by camera operator Matt Sohn. The "frat boy" who mocks Andy at the restaurant was Greg Daniels' former assistant, Jonah Platt. Jay Falk, a script editor for the series, and his wife stood in for the couple buying Jim and Pam's house.[20] Jennifer Celotta, a series writer and director, makes an appearance at Dwight's wedding. The episode's call sheet listed her character as "Jen Celotta Schrute".[21] Producer and writer Graham Wagner also makes a cameo in both Mose's group, as well as at the wedding.[20] Many of the individuals who asked questions were writers on the show: Brent Forrester asked about seeing their lives on TV, Amelie Gillette asked the question regarding Jim giving up Athlead, Steve Burgess asked if the camera changed the characters' behavior, Steve Hely asked if life has no meaning, Allison Silverman made the statement that Jim is attractive, and Dan Sterling asked what was in the teapot. Daniels' wife, Susanne Daniels, was the Q&A moderator.[20][22] Daniels himself appeared during the documentary after-party along with executive producer Howard Klein, editors David Rogers and Claire Scanlon, script supervisor Veda Semarne, first assistant director Rusty Mahmood, prop master Phil Shea, and casting director Allison Jones. The remaining extras in the scene were members of the crew of The Office.[19][20]
Jennie Tan, the founder of the largest The Office fansite OfficeTally appears in the episode as a fictional version of herself asking the members of the office questions. She initially emailed Daniels, asking if she could appear in the background in one of the scenes. He, however, hired her as a day actor and wrote her seven lines. During the filming, Daniels re-wrote part of Tan's line to make it more "pointed".[22] Tan called the experience "surreal", because she was "playing [herself] but talking to Jim and Pam", rather than Krasinski and Fischer.[22]
"I figured the character would go back and visit everybody, but he wouldn't do it on camera at this point. I think he had grown past the idea of being in the documentary, that was my take on it. That [Michael Scott] had said goodbye to that aspect of his life, that that's not what was important to him. I just thought, yeah he'd go back and visit, but he wouldn't want the camera crew to be documenting it."
—Steve Carell, explaining his initial hesitation to return to The Office.[23]Early during production for the season, Kinsey and Wilson noted in an interview that the cast and crew were hoping for the return of former lead actor Carell.[24] In mid-December, Krasinski later revealed that he was optimistic about a return; in an interview with E! Online Krasinski said that the producers were supposedly "still trying to figure out [Carell's] schedule" and that the finale "just wouldn't be the same without him".[25] However, NBC chairman Robert Greenblatt later admitted during an interview that while he was "hopeful", he did not think Carell would return; he noted that Carell was satisfied with his character's exit and did not want to tarnish it.[26] On January 16, Daniels revealed that Carell would not appear in the finale in any capacity,[4] a decision that Carell later reiterated.[27] Several months later, however, TVLine reported that the producers for The Office mounted "an 11th hour effort" to get Carell to make a cameo in the show's final episode.[28] According to the article, "while no one is confirming that the final diplomatic push proved successful, no one is denying it either."[28] Carell's personal representative confirmed that Carell was on the set for the final episode, but that he did not film any scenes. However, an anonymous source close to the show cryptically said "don't rule anything out".[28] TVLine later reported on May 6, that Carell would appear in a cameo, although NBC declined to comment and Carell's representatives continued to deny the reports.[29] A month after the episode aired, Carell explained in an interview with TVLine that he "lied for months to the press, to almost everyone, really".[30] He noted that he "felt terribly for the cast and for [executive producer] Greg Daniels, because they all lied, too."[30] Krasinski, on the other hand, explained that "It was so thrilling. We all just flat-out lied... It was just one of those things that we all vowed and had to protect".[30] Even at the initial table read for the script, Carell's appearance was not revealed. In fact, his first line was not included in the read at all, and his second was scripted to be delivered by Creed Bratton.[31]
The Season Nine DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include: more scenes from the Q&A panel; Pete discussing what he learned working at Dunder Mifflin; toasts at Dwight and Angela's wedding from Angela's sister, Phyllis, and Andy; more scenes with Erin and her biological parents in which they reconnect; further shots of the office members reminiscing about shared memories; and the office taking one of the potted plants outside and planting it in actual soil. Erin's parents explain that they, like Erin, are puppeteers, and when they worked on the movie The Dark Crystal, it gave them such gloomy thoughts they didn't think they could handle bringing up a baby.[32] The episode originally was scripted to begin with a different cold open; it would have entailed a prank on Dwight by Jim, in which Dwight is led to believe that he is actually living in the Matrix, a computer-simulation from the eponymous 1999 film of the same name. The scene was cut from the episode and not included with the other deleted scenes, but it was shared via Facebook by Peacock TV on January 1, 2021.[33] A table read of it—along with the rest of the episode—was included as a bonus feature on the ninth season DVD.[31]
The episode makes a reference to Creed being a member of the rock band The Grass Roots. In fact, Creed Bratton, who portrays a fictionalized version of himself on the show, did play with the band from 1967 to 1969.[34] The song he performs near the end is titled "All the Faces", which he wrote himself.[35] Andy mentions that both the "Double Rainbow Guy" and the "Star Wars Kid" reached out to help him after his viral video mishap.[36] Both Hader and Meyers appear in a fictional Saturday Night Live Weekend Update sketch involving Andy's viral fame.[37] After Pam compares her and Jim's relationship to a great book that never ends, Tan's character asks if it is comparable to the Harry Potter series.[22] Dwight claims that Google is actually a front for either the United States government or "the government of other countries".[38]
The episode also features several callback references to previous episodes. Oscar saying "Whazzup!" serves as a reference to a scene from "Pilot" between Michael, Dwight, and Jim.[19] Jim's description in his final talking head of his job is a direct quote from his first talking head in "Pilot".[39] Dwight hires Devon back after Creed quits, a reference to "Halloween", when Creed convinced Michael to fire Devon.[19] Pam sits at reception one final time and answers the phone, saying "Dunder Mifflin, this is Pam." This is a reference to Pam's former role as office receptionist and a common phrase that she said during the early seasons.[36] Pam's painting of the office building, introduced in "Business School", plays a prominent role in the final scene.[36]
"Finale" originally aired on May 16, 2013, on NBC in a 75-minute timeslot, preceded by a one-hour retrospective.[40][41] The retrospective was viewed by 4.37 million viewers and received a 2.1/7% rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[42] The finale itself was viewed by 5.69 million viewers and received a 3.0 rating/8% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[42] This means that it was seen by 3.0 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 8 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a significant increase, of over one million viewers, in the ratings from the previous episode, "A.A.R.M.".[42][43] It also ranks as the highest-rated episode of the season, and, in terms of viewers, it was the highest-rated episode for the series since season eight's, "Pool Party", which had been viewed by 6.02 million viewers.[42][44] The episode ranked second in its timeslot, being beaten by the ABC medical drama series, Grey's Anatomy.[42] NBC increased their usual ad price by 200 percent for "Finale", asking for $400,000 per commercial. This was largely due to the anticipated increase in viewership that the finale would bring.[45] Via DVR viewing, the episode was watched by an additional 2.38 million viewers with an added 18- to 49-year rating of 1.4, bringing the total to 8.07 million viewers and an 18- to 49-year rating of 4.4.[46]
"Finale" was met with acclaim from television critics.[47] Alan Sepinwall of HitFix gave the episode a highly positive review and called it "a tremendously satisfying conclusion to a show that could make us gasp with laughter, but that could also make us cry or smile". Sepinwall noted that, despite the inconsistency in the last few seasons, "the world was rich enough to fuel a lovely 75-minute trip through the past, present and future of The Office. Ultimately, he noted that the "biggest emotional moments" belonged to Jim and Pam, and their final talking heads.[19] Roth Cornet of IGN awarded the episode a 9 out of 10, denoting an "amazing" episode. She was highly pleased with the final fifteen minutes, noting that "in those final moments, this series hit every note we could have wanted, without overplaying any of them." She concluded that it "was a strong hour of television [and] the finale shone and delivered on all of its promise."[48] Hillary Busis of Entertainment Weekly praised the entry, writing that "for anyone who's stuck with The Office through thick and thin ... last night's 75-minute-long finale was pretty much perfect." She wrote that "the finale had no shortage of sob-inducing moments", and applauded all of the characters' various happy endings.[49]
Nick Campbell of TV.com wrote that the episode was "just right" for the series, and that it highlighted the fact that "the ending was more about the fact that you took a journey with these characters." He wrote that all of the character's subplots had emotion, even if they appeared slightly contrived. Ultimately he concluded that "it felt okay to say goodbye because it was the right atmosphere."[50] James Poniewozik of Time wrote that the finale was "touching, sweet, funny, messy, a little manipulative. And in the end, it worked." He found that "The stuff that was like latter-seasons Office", such as Andy and Dwight's antics, were "all right" but that "the stuff that recalled the sweep of the whole series was wonderful." Poniewozik was slightly critical of Pam and Jim's story, noting that in the grand scheme of the show it was successful, but that it makes slightly less sense when one examines it closely; however, he felt that even "if the details don't add up, the emotions do". He concluded that the episode "worked mostly as an epilogue" and allowed the cast of the series to have their final moments.[34]
Brian Lowry of Variety wrote that the finale "ignored" the last few seasons' missteps and was "awash in warmth and inside gags". He concluded that the show "deserved to finish on top", and that while some of the scenes, such as Dwight's wedding, seemed "a little bit trite", the resulting product was successful.[51] Michael Tedder of Vulture awarded the episode five stars out of five and wrote that the episode was able to provide solid conclusions for all of the characters.[36] Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode an "A−" and wrote that "the quality of this series finale is found in the way it functions right now, in the afterglow of a TV show to which many devoted more than 100 hours of their lives. Some aspects of the episode fall flat, but when it hits, it hits." Ultimately, he found that "'Finale' is not a great piece of television" but that it was the finale that "The Office needed" because it was "the right point to jump off ... the circular track", due to the series idea of thematic reoccurrence.[52] Tom Gliatto of People magazine, however, gave the episode a negative review, and wrote that "this episode was poorly conceived and clumsily structured. It really wasn't worthy of all the years of affectionate humor that had gone before it."[47]
Steve Carell's cameo received glowing reviews from critics. Campbell noted that he was "glad [Carell's] return was still uncertain [before the episode aired] because the reveal was made that much sweeter."[50] Sepinwall noted that Carell's return managed to not "overshadow the stories of the people who remained after he left, but which made sense for the characters, and the end of the series."[19] Adams noted that "Carell doesn't get a lot to say—he's already had his chance to say goodbye—but that just makes each of his lines count more".[52] Cornet felt that the cameo's "brevity" was "the perfect amount of Michael for this particular episode".[48] Poniewozik described it as "a way that as best as possible walked the line between overplaying and underplaying Steve Carell's cameo."[34] Lowry called it a "perfectly orchestrated cameo".[51] Basis wrote that the appearance was "pretty great" and that "the notion of Michael finally getting the family he's always wanted was enough to melt the heart of even the nit-pickiest fan."[49]
This episode received three Primetime Emmy Award nominations for the 65th Primetime Emmy Awards. Greg Daniels was nominated for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series and Ben Patrick, John W. Cook, and Rob Carr were nominated for Outstanding Sound Mixing for a Comedy or Drama Series (Half-Hour) and Animation. David Rogers and Claire Scanlon won for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series, marking the fifth win for The Office at the Emmys overall and the series' first win since 2009.[53][54] Rogers and Scanlon also won an ACE Eddie award for Best Edited Half-Hour Series for Television.[55]


"The Coup" is the third episode of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's thirty-first episode overall. It first aired on October 5, 2006, on NBC in the United States.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) becomes unimpressed with how Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is controlling his branch, so Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) tries to take his job and an office power play ensues. Meanwhile, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) conducts a lunchtime fashion show, and the Stamford branch plays Call of Duty as a team-building exercise, something Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) does not do well in.
The episode was written by co-executive producer Paul Lieberstein and directed by executive producer Greg Daniels. Several cast members noted that the episode contained Shakespearean elements, such as Angela Martin's similarities with the Macbeth character Lady Macbeth. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was viewed by 4.1% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. Critical reception was largely mixed, with several reviewers criticizing Jim's Stamford storyline.
Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) berates Michael Scott (Steve Carell) when she discovers that he calls the entire office into the conference room every Monday to watch a movie. Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) prods Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) to ask Jan to give him Michael's job. After her awkward meeting with Dwight, where he declares he can be a better boss than Michael, Jan calls Michael and demands he get his branch under control.
The Stamford branch plays Call of Duty under the guise of a team-building exercise. New to the game, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) plays poorly and draws the ire of his teammates. As he leaves for home, Jim pretends to toss a grenade at Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones), who responds by creating a pretend explosion with paper clips. Karen longingly watches Jim leave.
Meanwhile, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) decides to revamp her wardrobe after her separation from Roy Anderson and ordered some new clothes. When Pam's clothes are shipped to the office, Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) insists that Pam perform a lunchtime fashion show to show off a new blouse. When it draws unwanted attention, Pam concludes that it is too revealing.
Michael leads Dwight to believe that he has been given control of the branch before revealing the ruse. Dwight begs for his job and for Michael's forgiveness while Angela and the rest of the office watch. Dwight offers to do Michael's laundry for a year. When it appears that Michael is on the verge of firing Dwight, Michael insists that they "hug it out, bitch." Dwight quickly returns to being Michael's loyal right-hand man, but Michael is still resentful, and forces Dwight to stand atop a box in the middle of the office, wearing a sign that says "LIAR"—and then promise to do Michael's laundry for a year.
"The Coup" was written by co-executive producer Paul Lieberstein, who plays series regular Toby Flenderson, and was directed by executive producer and series creator Greg Daniels.[1] Several cast members believed the episode contains Shakespearean themes, in particular elements of the Macbeth character Lady Macbeth in Angela's storyline.[2] Lady Macbeth was depicted as an ambitious woman who "exerted an evil influence over her husband,"[3] characteristics that fit with Angela attempting to push her lover, Dwight, into power.[1][2] In her weekly blog for TV Guide, actress Kate Flannery previewed the episode, "Behind every great man is a pushy woman. Or in this case, a pushy, short, judgmental blonde named Angela. It's the ultimate Adam-and-Eve saga. Angela is about to push the apple in Dwight's face as she persuades him to try to take Michael's place at Dunder Mifflin."[4]
In preparation for some episode scenes, Rashida Jones "took some serious Call of Duty" lessons from the writers, as they all played the online game. In the DVD audio commentary, Rainn Wilson stated that he was happy that the series could "have the nuanced stuff and then the really broad stuff"; he referred specifically to Michael confronting Dwight in this episode as well as to the season's twenty-third episode "Beach Games", where "people are running around in inflatable outfits bashing each other." Also in the audio commentary, Jones suggested that Dwight's punishment – being forced to wear a "liar" sign and stand silently on some boxes in the middle of the office – was reminiscent of the iconic photo of the Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse.[2]
The season three DVD contains a number of deleted scenes that were edited from the episode. These include Creed revealing that he sleeps under his desk four nights a week, Dwight and Angela flirting in the break room after he tries to persuade her to join Movie Monday, Dwight responding to Angela's initial suggestions that he should push Michael out by saying "Michael has the best sales figures in the company's history—I'll never come close to his numbers", Michael becoming suspicious when Pam interrupts to tell him that he has a phone call, Pam responding to Kevin's unwanted attention to her neckline, and Creed reacting to having Dwight as the new boss.[5]
Overall, "The Coup" had its moments, but it's far from being among the best Office episodes to date. Dwight being shamed and groveling for mercy on Michael's floor was funny (and disturbing) but not as satisfying as when Pam & Jim pull an elaborate prank on Mr. Schrute. Here's hoping the series kick-starts the Pam-Jim storyline again soon, before we start wondering why those documentary cameras are still following Jim way over in the Stamford branch.
Brian Zoromski, IGN[6]"The Coup" first aired on October 5, 2006, in the United States on NBC. It received a Nielsen rating of 4.1/11. This means that it was seen by 4.1% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode placed as the 24th most-watched episode for the week in that demographic.[7]
The episode received mixed reviews from television critics. IGN columnist Brian Zoromski rated "The Coup" 7.8/10, indicating it as a "good" episode. He felt that after the "brilliant" episode from the previous week, "The Coup" was "somewhat anticlimactic, as Jim doesn't interact at all with the Scranton branch and the Pam-Jim storyline is pretty much ignored." Despite his disappointment with Jim's storyline, Zoromski commented that the "best moments of the episode were the completely random ones, such as Dwight knowing that Jan wears blouses from Liz Claiborne and earrings from Ann Taylor."[6] AOLTV's Michael Sciannamea was also unhappy with Jim's scenes, writing that they were "beginning to grate on [him]. Is every branch office at Dunder Mifflin filled with crazies? How then does the company stay in business? I think it would have been funnier if Jim ended up in an office where it's nothing but work and no play at all. The Call of Duty bits didn't do much for me."[8]
Kath Skerry of Give Me My Remote called Dwight's groveling "hilarious," but was unsure about Jim and Karen's ending scene, explaining that it "was adorable. Too adorable. And I’m not quite ready to handle the fact that I’m not HATING the idea of Jim and Karen. I feel like I’m betraying Pam. I’m still a JAM shipper all the way, but it’s nice to see Jim smile again." Skerry concluded that "there were some seriously funny, laugh out loud moments tonight, but I don’t think this episode is going to make my favorites list. But even when The Office isn’t at its best, it’s still hands down the best comedy on TV."[9] Television Without Pity graded the episode with an A−.[10] In the audio commentary, Wilson noted that "The Coup" is "not a fan favorite," though it was submitted for an Emmy Award.[2] For his work on this episode, Paul Lieberstein was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for Best Screenplay – Episodic Comedy.


"The Seminar" is the fourteenth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy
television series The Office, and the show's 140th episode overall. Written by Steve Hely and directed by B. J. Novak, the episode aired January 27, 2011 on NBC. The episode features Ricky Gervais reprising his role as David Brent, his character from the original British version of The Office, in an uncredited cameo.
In the episode, Andy holds a small business seminar in the office. He asks Kevin, Creed and Kelly to help him while Michael and Holly embrace the opportunity to improv. Meanwhile, Oscar and Pam help Erin in a Scrabble battle against Gabe.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) bumps into David Brent (Ricky Gervais) outside an elevator. After they exchange several ethnic jokes, David asks if Dunder Mifflin is hiring. Michael says "not right now" and David asks him to drop a line if they do have any openings.
In order to improve his worst-in-office sales totals, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) holds a seminar on starting a small business. He enlists Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) as one of the guest speakers, but Jim abruptly pulls out when he apparently recognizes one of the attendants. The other speakers—Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith), and Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker)—lose faith in Andy's plan and also pull out, leaving Andy to replace them with Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) and Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak). Kevin's speech goes bad when he gets ill from running around the room to Ozzy Osbourne's "Crazy Train," and vomits in front of the audience. Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling), who replaces Ryan, calls up an old professor from her management training time at Yale to talk business lessons. Creed delivers a bizarre speech about the Loch Ness Monster.
Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) is battling Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) in a game of Scrabble played over their phones. The winner of their Scrabble games always picks the movie they watch, and since Erin is poor at the game, Gabe has already subjected her to numerous horror movies such as The Shining, Rosemary's Baby and The Ring. As she has only been using cow-based words, with the help of Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer), she almost beats Gabe but loses on the last turn, because she does not realize Oscar is trying to feed her a winning word ("apoplexy") and instead puts in "ape".
After Jim spends all day outside of the office doing meaningless activities, Pam forces him to tell the camera crew why he is avoiding the guy. He and the man were childhood friends who were placed in separate reading groups in school (Jim was in the superior one). After his mom told him to spend time with the kids in his own reading group, Jim told his friend that "my mom thinks you're too dumb to hang out with." Jim bumps into the man in the break room, and tries to laugh off their history, but the man mocks Jim for not being as successful as his superior intellect would have indicated, and snarks "Where's your jet pack, Zuckerberg?"
During a break in Andy's seminar, Dwight talks to one of the attendees, a man who owns a golf supply business, and realizes this could actually be a good opportunity for the sales team. He, along with Phyllis and Stanley, try to rejoin Andy, who refuses at Darryl's advice. At the end of the seminar, Andy is able to sell three packages, thanks to the advice of Michael, who has taken a Greek persona of "Mykonos" in order to impress Holly Flax (Amy Ryan), who has broken up with AJ. With Holly playing his wife "Necropolis", Michael professes his love to her (in character). She becomes uncomfortable at this and walks away but Michael is hopeful.
At the end of the day, Gabe shows Erin the movie they will be watching that night, Hardware, which involves a killer robot (calling it a compromise because Erin wanted to watch WALL-E). As he is leaving, Andy casually loans Erin a copy of Shrek 2, saying he thinks she would like it. A deflated Gabe realizes that Erin is far more excited about the movie Andy recommended her than the one he picked out.
The episode was written by producer Steve Hely, the first episode he has written for The Office since joining the writing staff in season seven. It was directed by co-executive producer B. J. Novak, the second episode he has directed for the series; he also portrays Ryan Howard on the show.[1] The episode features the first guest appearance of The Office co-creator Ricky Gervais which was revealed on January 19, 2011, that Gervais would reprise his role as David Brent from the original British series in a cameo appearance.[2] The scene was shot months previously, and NBC hoped to keep it a secret, but the news eventually leaked.[2] Gervais appeared in the cold open in the episode, interacting with Michael Scott.[3] He eventually reappeared in the seventh season finale, "Search Committee".[4]
The official  website for The Office included four cut scenes from "The Seminar" within a week of its release. In the first 41-second clip, Stanley reveals his selling technique while Andy reveals why he can't close sales.[5] In the second 56-second clip, Michael gives more answers to Holly on his Greek character.[6] In the third 39-second clip, Creed reveals that the idea of Chuck E. Cheese's was supposedly taken from him.[7] In the fourth 108-second clip,  Dwight, Stanley and Phyllis try to convince Michael to make Andy let them close the seminar.[8]
In its original American broadcast on January 27, 2011,[1] "The Seminar" was viewed by an estimated 7.93 million viewers and received a 4.0 rating/11% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49 according to the Nielsen Media Research.[9] This means that it was seen by 4.0% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. It marked an eleven percent decrease  from the previous episode, Ultimatum.[9][10] The episode ranked first in its timeslot beating the Fox series Bones which received a 3.9 rating/10% share in the 18–49 demographic, a rerun of the CBS crime drama CSI: Crime Scene Investigation which received a 2.1 rating/6% share, a rerun of the ABC medical drama, Grey's Anatomy which received 1.5 rating/4% share and Nikita which received a 1.1 rating/3% share.[9]
The episode received mostly positive reviews from critics. HitFix writer Alan Sepinwall said the episode was "uneven but often funny, and a nice showcase for the supporting cast."[11] James Poniewozik of Time praised the cold opening with Ricky Gervais, writing, "In barely over a minute, it showed us the commonalities between the two characters: how they've each created a world in which they are 'performers' whose cutting-edge comedy is often unappreciated".[12] Despite this, "The Seminar" was voted the second lowest-rated episode out of 24 from the seventh season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally.[13]

"Spooked" is the fifth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 157th episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on October 27, 2011. It was written by Carrie Kemper, sister of cast member Ellie Kemper, and directed by Randall Einhorn. The episode guest starred David Mazouz.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Erin Hannon (Kemper) works to make a spooky, non-childish Halloween party with help from Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods). Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) becomes friends with Robert California's (James Spader) son (David Mazouz), and Pam (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) debate the existence of ghosts. Meanwhile, Robert figures out everyone's deepest fears and tries to culminate a ghost story.
"Spooked" received mixed reviews, although many critics complimented Ellie Kemper's performance. According to the Nielsen Media Research, "Spooked" drew 5.53 million viewers and received a 2.9 rating/7% share in the 18–49 demographic. The episode ranked as one of the lowest-rated episodes of the series to air on Thursday and ranked third in its timeslot.
Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) has been assigned to set up the Halloween party by Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), who wants to live up to the expectations set by Robert California (James Spader). Robert arrives with his son Bert (David Mazouz) and remarks that the party is more tailored to kids than adults. In response, Andy asks Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) and Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) to take over and re-tailor the party, much to Erin's chagrin as she still holds feelings for him. Andy also tells her that he wishes to speak with her at the end of the day. Worried that he intends to fire her, she asks Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) to help her make the party more "scary" and "sexy", and he gives her a tape to show everyone. Gabe explains to the camera crew that the video is a Cinema of the Unsettling movie, an avant garde film genre defined by its disturbing images and absence of plot. Disgusted by the video (as well as visibly baffled by two of the images displaying Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez)'s grandma and  Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) simply getting in his car), the office staff demand an explanation from Erin. In desperation, she shows them her idea for making the party more "sexy": a card game with photos of genitalia. This only makes them more outraged, and Andy and Robert talk with Erin in Andy’s office regarding the incident. Erin admits her fears about their planned talk at the end of the day. Andy tells her what he wanted to talk to her about: he has reached a point in his romantic relationship where his girlfriend should be able to call him at the office, and that he wanted to clear this with Erin first since she handles all calls. Erin had not even known that he was dating someone, and is shocked to hear they have been out on 31 dates so far. Erin feels dejected and leaves.
Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) argue whether ghosts are real after she claims to have seen one at a pub where she used to work. Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) dresses up as Sarah Kerrigan from StarCraft, but Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) takes off his wings as they had knives on them and Dwight is not allowed to bring in weapons. Bert recognizes what his costume is supposed to be, and despite Dwight's annoyance at Bert's criticisms about dressing as a girl and that no one seems to like him, Bert gains his respect when he tells Dwight the scariest animal is a box jellyfish, and the two bond over playing StarCraft all day, ignoring everyone else. Dwight also makes Bert pretend to fire Toby, for taking away his weapons, on the grounds that he is the CEO's son.
Throughout the party, Robert coaxes each of the employees into revealing their deepest fears. Before leaving, he tells a horror story implementing all their fears as a way to convince them not to let fear control their lives. This inspires Jim and Pam to stop their argument and Erin to talk to Andy about her feelings.
The episode was written by story editor Carrie Kemper, sister of cast member Ellie Kemper, her second written story for the series. It was directed by one of The Office's cinematographers, Randall Einhorn, his 15th directing credit for the series.[2] The episode is the third Halloween themed episode of the series after season two's "Halloween" and season seven's "Costume Contest".[3] The episode also featured James Spader as Sabre CEO Robert California, who was set to appear in 15 episodes for the season.[4] The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include the rest of the office getting in the debate over whether ghosts exist, and Robert's son Bert and Dwight talking about zombies, specifically characters from The Walking Dead.[5]
In the episode, Dwight dresses up as Sarah Kerrigan, a character from the video game series StarCraft.[6] Later, Toby narrates a montage of previous costumes worn by Dwight, including Freddy Krueger, Jigsaw, and Pinhead, the primary antagonists from the A Nightmare on Elm Street, Saw, and Hellraiser franchises, respectively.[7]  Angela is seen dressed in the same cat that she wore in the season two episode, "Halloween".[6] Jim, Kevin and Darryl are dressed up as professional basketball players Chris Bosh, Dwyane Wade and LeBron James, respectively. Ryan is dressed as Jesse Pinkman from the TV series Breaking Bad, wearing the character's signature yellow hoodie and beanie.[6]
In its original American broadcast, "Spooked" was viewed by an estimated 5.53 million viewers and received a 2.9 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[8] This means that it was seen by 2.9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds in the United States, and 7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a 15% drop in the ratings from the previous episode, "Garden Party" making it the lowest-rated episode of the series that aired on Thursday.[9] The episode ranked third in its timeslot beating Person of Interest, which received a 2.7 rating/7% share in the 18—49 demographic, and The Secret Circle, which received a 0.9 rating/2% share.[8] The episode, however, was beaten to number two by Grey's Anatomy, which received a 3.7 rating/9% share, and beaten to number one by the 2011 World Series, which received a 6.5 rating/18% share.[8]
The episode received mostly mixed reviews from critics. National Post writer Barry Hertz wrote that while "it wasn’t as patience-testing as last year’s outing ['Costume Contest'], but it also wasn’t as gut-busting and on-the-nose as its earlier incarnation ['Halloween']." He complimented the Erin and Andy plot, but called the Jim and Pam plot "boring". Ellie Kemper's performance received commendations from Hertz.[10] The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt criticized the episode for "just creating situations and seeing how the characters react to them, which is likely why the writers were willing to lazily rehash the stock 'office Halloween party' setup that drives the narrative of 'Spooked'." Despite this, he wrote positively of Erin's plot, Kemper's performance, and James Spader's scary speech at the end. However, McNutt was critical of the Dwight plot and the Jim and Pam plot writing that "I don’t care that Pam believes in ghosts and Jim doesn’t, I don’t care that Dwight gets a few scenes in which the cynical adult is softened by the presence of a precocious child." He ultimately gave the episode a C+.[3] New York writer Chris Blanche criticized the episode for its lack of heart.[11] Television Without Pity gave the episode a C rating.[7] Several critics considered the episode an improvement over the previous Halloween episode, "Costume Contest".[3][6][10]



"Jury Duty" is the thirteenth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 165th episode overall, airing on NBC in the United States on February 2, 2012. It was written by Aaron Shure and directed by Eric Appel, and guest starred Jack Coleman, Lindsey Broad, and Mark Proksch.
The series, presented as if it were a real documentary, depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) returns from jury duty and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) questions him on every detail of his case. However, Jim later comes under fire when Dwight reveals he only served half a day on his single case then took the rest of the week off to spend time with his wife, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer), looking after their toddler and new baby, Phillip. Meanwhile, Angela (Angela Kinsey) and the state senator welcome an infant son.
"Jury Duty" marks the first appearance of Fischer since "Gettysburg", when her character went on maternity leave. "Jury Duty" received mostly positive reviews from critics, with many reviews noting that the episode was a step in the right direction for the show. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Jury Duty" drew 5.31 million viewers and received a 2.8 rating/7% share in the 18–49 demographic, marking a 10% drop in ratings from the previous episode, "Pool Party". Despite this, it was the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) returns from jury duty and learns that, in his week-long absence, his co-workers were forced to pick up the slack his prolonged and unanticipated absence created. Jim reveals to the camera that, while he was called for duty, he was dismissed at noon on the first day and headed home to Pam (Jenna Fischer) and their two children; he saw that Pam was overwhelmed and took the rest of the week off to help take care of their children. He finds that his co-workers suffered various inconveniences covering for him, making him feel guilty. To appease his interested co-workers, Jim fabricates numerous details of his jury duty, and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) becomes suspicious when Jim mistakenly refers to a food truck franchise Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) ate at during his jury duty as a "restaurant". After finding a small inconsistency in Jim's story, Dwight accuses Jim of lying about jury duty and extracts from Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) a promise to fire Jim if he proves he is correct. Ashamed, Jim privately admits the truth to Andy, who insists that they keep the matter a secret so that he will not be held to his promise. However, Dwight increases his attempts to prove Jim's guilt, and Jim finally decides to defy Andy's orders and tell his co-workers the truth rather than wait for Dwight to inevitably expose him. While this angers most of the employees, Dwight is thrilled at the confession and demands that Andy keep his promise to fire Jim. Andy refuses, so Dwight tries to contact Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods). To smooth things over, Jim and Pam bring in their children, Cece and Phillip, and present pictures that Cece drew for the co-workers. It becomes clear that Jim and Pam drew the pictures themselves, but before the members of the office can berate the couple, the children begin crying loudly, creating a cacophony that Jim and Pam struggle to control, forcing them to take the children back to the car. Realizing the stress that having young kids causes, the office workers ultimately forgive Jim for his behavior and allow him to leave early to help Pam.
Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) and her husband, state senator Robert (Jack Coleman), welcome their new baby, also named Phillip. Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez), Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), and Gabe all visit Angela at the hospital. According to Angela, the baby was born prematurely, but due to the size, Oscar deduces that Angela lied about the date of conception. Angela admits that the baby was conceived before her wedding, and makes Oscar promise not to tell anyone. Suspecting that Dwight is the real father, Oscar breaks his promise and tells him when he arrives at the hospital in search of Gabe. Dwight barges in on Angela and her husband and begins thoroughly examining the child. When the senator leaves, Dwight confronts Angela about the child, claiming that it is his. She refutes his claim, but Dwight leaves satisfied, telling the attending nurse to call off the baby's circumcision, which the nonplussed nurse refuses to do. Upon returning to Dunder Mifflin he drops his dispute with Jim, since his self-assumed fatherhood has given him a new appreciation for the duties of parenthood. The episode ends with Dwight putting a decal on his car, in honor of his covert new family member.
"Jury Duty" was written by consulting producer Aaron Shure, his sixth writing credit for the series after joining the writing staff in the fifth season.[2] It was directed by Eric Appel, his first directing credit for the series.[2] The episode features a guest appearance from Jack Coleman as Senator Robert Lipton, Angela's husband, who first appeared in the seventh season episode, "WUPHF.com".[2][3] The episode marks the first appearance of Jenna Fischer since "Gettysburg".[4] Due to her pregnancy, she was on maternity leave for four episodes.[5] Her pregnancy was written into the series, with Pam and Jim having their second baby.[5] Unlike the sixth season, there was no episode focusing on the baby's birth; it was instead announced on a blog.[6] According to showrunner Paul Lieberstein, she will come back "with very little fanfare".[7] The episode also marks the seventh appearance of Lindsey Broad, who plays Cathy, Pam's replacement during her maternity leave.[8] She appeared in a recurring role for the season, after she initially appeared in "Pam's Replacement".[8] The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Andy getting a friend of his, who starred in the Scranton production of Sweeney Todd, to pretend to be a police officer, only to have Darryl uncover the truth, Dwight telling the camera about a recurring nightmare where he is on trial and all of his co-workers are the members of the jury, and Jim trying to make it up to the office by buying all of the despised black licorice from the vending machines so that the rest of the office has access to the red licorice. However, his plan goes awry and his co-workers make him eat all of the black licorice as punishment.[9]
Several television shows, movies, and video games were referenced. Andy compares stress to a mayor who decrees it is illegal to dance—as in the plot of Footloose—and relieves his stress by dancing to the film's title song. Stanley complains that, after working late for Jim, he was forced to watch Rizzoli & Isles with his wife.[10] Andy refers to Jim as "Judge Judy" when he asks what his jury case was about.[2] Dwight mentions that Jim once tricked him into believing he had been chosen to appear in the popular police procedural drama NCIS.[2] Kevin tells Angela that he bought her new baby Call of Duty, a popular first-person shooter video game.[11]
"Jury Duty" originally aired on NBC in the United States on February 2, 2012.[2] This was the first episode to air on Global TV in Canada on its new date, Wednesday, February 1, 2012.[12] In the US, the episode was viewed by an estimated 5.31 million viewers and received a 2.8 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[13]  This means that it was seen by 2.8% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a 10% drop in the ratings from the previous episode, "Pool Party".[13] The episode also became the lowest-rated episode of the series to air on Thursday.[13] The episode finished third in its time slot, being beaten by Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.6 rating/9% share and the CBS drama Person of Interest which received a 3.3 rating/9% share in the 18–49 demographic.[13] The episode beat the Fox drama series The Finder and The CW drama series The Secret Circle.[13] Despite ranking number three, the episode ranked number one in the adults and men 18–34 time slot.[14] In addition, "Jury Duty" was the highest-rated NBC television episode of the night.[13]
"Jury Duty" received mostly positive reviews from critics and was considered by many critics to be a major step in the right direction for the series. Brian Marder from the New York Post wrote that, "['Jury Duty'] was a step, if not a leap, in the right direction for the show—which, let's be honest, is showing its fatigue and staleness; possibly nearing its end; clearly suffering without Steve Carell."[15]  Craig McQuinn from The Faster Times gave the episode a positive review, calling the episode "fun and surprisingly sweet."[16] McQuinn enjoyed the episode's developments, most notably the idea that both Jim and Dwight can bond as fathers and explained that he hoped the producers would not "forget about it like almost every other development this season."[16] New York writer Michael Tedder complimented the writers for improving on the first half of the season and wrote that the episode felt more "tightly written".[17] He also complimented Krasinski's "understated" performance as well as Wilson's acting, citing the scene near the end of the episode wherein Dwight learns Angela's baby might be his.[17] Despite this, he criticized the cold opening and the "miming chill pill" scene.[17] Lizzie Fuhr from BuzzSugar gave the episode a glowing review, saying, "After a solid cold opening of Andy dancing ..., the rest of this week's episode of The Office is a success. ... This is one of my favorite episodes I can remember in a long time. Not too plot driven and chock-full of solid comedic writing plus a handful endearing moments that just made me feel good. To get a few of my favorite lines, just keep reading."[18] 
Myles McNutt from The A.V. Club gave the episode a B− rating and, although commenting on the lack of stakes for the characters, remarked that, "'Jury Duty' had a certain confidence to it. It may not have satisfyingly explored Jim’s character, but it ended with a clear statement of his role as a father, reintroducing Jenna Fischer into the cast and putting a button on that particular story development."[10]
However, several critics gave the episode a mixed review.  Dan Forcella from TVFanatic gave the episode a 3.5 out of 5 stars and wrote, "there were definitely some ups and some downs in 'Jury Duty'." However, he did praise the action of several characters, most notably Kevin and Dwight.[11] Joseph Kratzer from WhatCulture gave the episode 3 out of 5 stars and wrote, "I truly appreciate the talented writing of Aaron Shure who crafted a genuinely well-structured episode. I guess I just didn’t feel like Jim’s story held any actual stakes and Dwight’s just felt random."[19]

Brent Forrester is an American writer and producer, who has written for 6 Emmy Award-winning television comedies. He wrote several episodes of the animated television sitcom The Simpsons between 1993 and 1997. He has worked as a writer on The Ben Stiller Show, Mr. Show with Bob and David, Undeclared, Super Fun Night and The Office. He served as head writer and executive producer on King of the Hill, Love, The Office and Space Force. Forrester has also written feature films.
Forrester, the son of physician James S. Forrester, grew up as a surfer in Malibu, California. As an undergraduate John Jay Scholar at Columbia University he worked on the university's student TV station, and returned to Los Angeles to begin a career as a TV writer.[1] At Columbia, he roomed with future Chattanooga mayor Tim Kelly in Carman Hall.[1]
Forrester wrote for The Simpsons between 1993 and 1997.[2] He wrote the episodes: "Homer vs. Patty and Selma",[3] "Lemon of Troy",[4] the Krusty Burger segment of "22 Short Films About Springfield",[5] and "Homerpalooza". "Homerpalooza" was based on a story by David X. Cohen, although Forrester wrote the script. To do research for the episode, Forrester went to one of the Lollapalooza concerts, which ended up being a horrible experience. Several of the jokes in the episode are based on his experiences: cameras (including his own) were being seized and thrown in the garbage, there were numerous advertisements, several "sour faced teens", a real freak show and at one point a stranger approached Forrester and asked "how's it going, nark?"[6]
Forrester has also served as executive producer on King of the Hill,[7] and written for The Ben Stiller Show, Mr. Show with Bob and David[2] and Undeclared. He served as a writer and consulting producer on The Office. He has written seven episodes of the show including "The Merger" and "Business School" and directed the episode "Casual Friday".[2] He also directed a 2008 series of webisodes of the show,[8] and wrote the NBC.com web series In Gayle We Trust.[9]
He also wrote the screenplay for the 1996 film The Stupids.[10] Forrester is writing the film The Low Self Esteem of Lizzie Gillespie with Mindy Kaling,[11] and a sitcom pilot for Ron Howard.[12]
Forrester also voiced Leon the Drug Addict in the episode of King of the Hill "Junkie Business".[citation needed]
In May 2012, he became an executive producer for the final season of The Office.[13] In 2014, Netflix announced a two-season comedy series entitled Love co-created by director Judd Apatow, Paul Rust, and Lesley Arfin, with Forrester as executive producer.[14] In 2019–2020 Forrester is executive producer of Space Force directed by Greg Daniels and starring Steve Carell.[15]
Forrester has written (or co-written) the following episodes:
Forrester has co-written (with Dino Stamatopoulos) the following sketches from the following episodes:
Forrester co-wrote (with Judd Apatow) the following episode:
Forrester has written or co-written the following episodes:
Forrester has written or co-written the following episodes:
Forrester has directed the following episodes:


"Branch Closing" is the seventh episode of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 35th overall. It was written by co-executive producer Michael Schur and directed by Tucker Gates. An edited version of the episode first aired on November 9, 2006, on NBC; later that night, a longer "producer's cut" edition was released, with deleted scenes edited into the full episode and broadcast on the website NBC.com. This uncut episode is the version included on the Season 3 DVD set.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton and Stamford branches of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, the Scranton branch has varied reactions to news that their branch will close. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) head to the CFO's house to convince him not to close it. When head of the Stamford branch Josh Porter (Charles Esten) announces he is quitting, the employees find that the company's plans have changed.
According to Nielsen Media Research, an estimated 8.05 million viewers watched "Branch Closing" on its first broadcast. Critical reception to the episode was very positive, with one reviewer opining that it "expertly combines character-driven and situational humor, while realistically presenting a major change that advances the stories of all the characters. The result is a fantastically funny, enjoyable and realistic half-hour."[1]
Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) informs Michael Scott (Steve Carell) that the Scranton branch will close, with a few people transferred to Stamford and the rest laid off. Michael takes the news badly, and soon tells the rest of the office prematurely.
Michael and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) decide to confront the CFO at his home. Back at the office, Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) takes this opportunity to break up with Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling), Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) tries to remember a promise that she made about sleeping with someone on the last day of work, Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) begins selling off the office equipment for profit, and Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) begins relishing the thought of retiring with severance.
Stamford branch manager Josh Porter (Charles Esten) reveals that he has leveraged the situation to obtain a better position at Staples. This shock forces Jan to close Stamford instead, and she offers Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) the number two position in Scranton, but he is reluctant to accept it.
The Scranton branch is relieved when they hear they are saved, and Kelly is thrilled that she and Ryan do not have to break up after all. When Michael and Dwight get the news, they celebrate their success, believing, erroneously, that they accomplished it. After agonizing over the decision, Jim accepts the position and suggests to Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) that she join him in Scranton. In a talking head interview, Karen admits that even though she does not think he is "into her," she is "kind of into him".
"Branch Closing" was written by co-executive producer Michael Schur and directed by Tucker Gates.[2] On her MySpace blog, actress Jenna Fischer urged readers to watch the episode, declaring that "The stuff [Michael and Dwight] do together is the absolute funniest thing ever on our show. And also the most touching... The entire episode is amazing.  I can't wait for you to see it."[3] The episode featured recurring guest stars Ed Helms, Rashida Jones, Craig Robinson, and Charles Esten.[4] This episode also marks as Esten's last appearance in the series.[5]
The same night the episode first aired, NBC.com released a "producer's cut", which contained additional scenes and extra footage not shown in the first broadcast.[4][6] Vivi Zigler, the executive vice president NBC digital entertainment and new media, explained that "this is a first-of-its-kind and a real bonus for fans of The Office. It's also a natural for this show which has continually pushed the envelope in the digital landscape. We're seeing an incredible audience reaction to the evolving digital extensions of our programming and anticipate this being one of their favorites."[4]
In her weekly blog post for TV Guide, actress Kate Flannery wrote of the producer's cut, "Isn't that cool? I think the Office fans are going to really dig it. I love the Stamford characters. Everyone is so much fun to work with."[7] This version contained two new story lines and other minor additions and changes, including Meredith remembering an agreement to have sex with a coworker on the final day of employment, Creed selling electronics and furniture from the office, Andy having a plan in case he gets laid off, and Ryan admitting that Kelly has a strange power over him.[8]
"Branch Closing" first aired on NBC in the United States on November 9, 2006. According to Nielsen Media Research, it was watched by an estimated 8.05 million viewers.[9] The episode was broadcast again on March 1, 2007, in its normal timeslot, receiving a viewership of 6.5 million people and a 3.0/8 rating share among adults aged 18 to 49. This was consistent with other repeat airings of the series on Thursday nights; the episode also retained 100 percent of its adult audience from its lead-in, My Name Is Earl.[10]
"Branch Closing" has received generally positive reviews from television critics. IGN's Brian Zoromski rated it 10 out of 10, making it one of only two third-season episodes he deemed a "masterpiece".[11] He explained that the episode "is a perfect example of why The Office is the best-written comedy currently on the air. The episode expertly combines character-driven and situational humor, while realistically presenting a major change that advances the stories of all the characters. The result is a fantastically funny, enjoyable and realistic half-hour."[1] Michael Sciannamea of AOL TV felt that because of the poor economy, the episode "surely hit home with quite a number of people," and added that it shows that Michael "does have a soul... you ended up rooting for him to save the day."[12] Sciannamea highlighted Stanley's reaction to the branch closure as one positive element, though he criticized the Ryan-Kelly storyline as "tiresome".[12]
Entertainment Weekly columnist Abby West lauded the episode, writing that it "had almost everything we could want: all the major players in the mix, an unexpected (not-really) twist, a juicy little revelation, and the short-term promise of a Jim/Pam reunion."[13] She was pleased with the emphasis on Jim and the way he "wonderfully bookended the conflicting emotions Michael inspires".[13] West also believed that the "writers did a great job of creating the sense of crisis that resulted in the Scranton branch instead absorbing Stamford (I never trusted that Josh guy) even though fans of the original knew it was going to end up that way."[13] Television Without Pity graded "Branch Closing" with an A.[14]

"Casino Night" is the second season finale of the American comedy television series The Office and the twenty-eighth episode overall. Written by Steve Carell, who also acts in the show as Michael Scott, and directed by Ken Kwapis, the episode originally aired in the United States on May 11, 2006, on NBC. The episode guest stars Nancy Carell as Carol Stills and Melora Hardin as Jan Levinson.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, the office hosts a casino night, to which Michael Scott (Carell) inadvertently invites two dates. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) decides to transfer to Dunder Mifflin's Stamford branch and reveals to Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) his feelings for her.
The episode was the first of the series to run as a "supersized" episode, featuring twenty-eight minutes and twenty seconds of content rather than the standard twenty minutes and thirty seconds. In addition, the episode was the first of the series to be written by Carell; he had suggested the idea for the episode to executive producer Greg Daniels, who thoroughly enjoyed the idea and green lit the script. "Casino Night" also introduces the musical exploits of Kevin Malone, played by Brian Baumgartner. The episode received wide acclaim from television critics and earned a Nielsen rating of 3.9 in the 18–49 demographic, being seen by 7.7 million viewers. It is generally considered by both critics and audiences to be one of the show's greatest episodes.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) organizes a casino charity event in the warehouse, and unwittingly winds up with two dates for the evening, his boss Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) and his real-estate agent Carol Stills (Nancy Carell).  Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) go through audition tapes for her wedding band and discover that colleague Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) has his own band.  Jim, upset about Pam's impending marriage to Roy Anderson (David Denman), tells the documentary crew that he met with Jan about transferring to the Stamford, Connecticut branch of Dunder Mifflin because he has "no future here."
During Casino Night, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) wins a game of craps and kisses Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) on the cheek, disregarding their attempts to keep their intimate relationship a secret. She slaps him and walks away, with the two quietly enjoying the experience. Jan and Carol share an awkward conversation when they realize Michael has invited them both. Jim tells Jan that he's made a decision about the transfer. After Roy leaves, Jim tells Pam that he is in love with her. After a stunned pause, she states she cannot be with him. He tells her he wants to be more than friends, but she claims he "misinterpreted things." Heartbroken, Jim apologizes for misinterpreting their friendship and discreetly wipes a tear from his cheek as he walks away. Jan leaves Michael and Carol, noticeably upset from the night's events, and it is revealed she packed an overnight bag in her car, implying she had planned to spend the night with Michael. Pam returns to the office and talks to her mother over the phone about Jim's confession. Jim enters the room and approaches her as she hastily hangs up. She begins to say something but Jim kisses her, and after hesitating, she returns the kiss, ending with the two staring at each other in silence.
"Casino Night" was the first episode of the series written by Steve Carell.[2][3] Initially, Carell suggested to executive producer Greg Daniels that an episode should revolve around a casino night. When it came time to plan the finale for the show, Daniels chose the idea and picked Carell to write the script. Parts of the script were fleshed out during the flights to and from New York City when the show was filming the earlier episode "Valentine's Day". Later, Carell had only one weekend to write the bulk script. Daniels was very happy with the rough script and noted that Carell "came in with a great draft".[4] Jenna Fischer admitted that filming the episode was a relief because she had "been carrying around the secret cliff-hangers for two months".[3] Toby Flenderson, who is portrayed by writer Paul Lieberstein, stated during the episode "I'm gonna chase that feeling" after winning at a game of poker. The line was originally intended to lead to a subplot wherein Toby develops a gambling addiction, but the storyline was later abandoned.[5]
The episode was the fifth episode of the season and the seventh of the entire series directed by Ken Kwapis.[3][6] During the editing of the episode, executive producer Greg Daniels publicly addressed NBC in an interview, stating, "I'd like to get a supersized episode, because it's a really long script with a lot of good stuff."[7] In response, fans of the show set up an online petition to "supersize" the season finale. The website generated over 2,800 signatures. On April 20, NBC announced it would be extending the season finale by ten minutes.[2] Although other NBC shows Will & Grace and My Name Is Earl that aired on the same night had extended episodes, cast members David Denman and John Krasinski credited in interviews the petition for the extended time. Denman and Krasinski both believed that the petition was partially responsible for the other two shows getting extended times as well.[8]
The filming of the episode's ending caused a "huge divide among the writing staff and the director and the cast".[9] Carell, Kwapis, and the actors wanted the moment when Pam and Jim kiss to "follow the characters and the emotion of the moment" by having the action captured in full by the show's cameramen. The writing staff, on the other hand, wanted Pam and Jim's moment to be private and only heard via the mics; Daniels explained, "The writing staff was itching to do something kind of weird [with the scene] and have it be a private moment that the doc crew didn't know was going to happen and so only heard on their mics and came running around the corner to film."[9]
The episode features Kevin Malone playing the drums in a band, which had been an idea circulated since the first season, when allusions to him being in a Steve Miller tribute band were written; the scenes had to be removed from the series due to issues negotiating with the singer. The crew later decided to have Kevin be in a Police tribute band called Scrantonicity because he "talks so low, and has very little expression, and there is no band that sings higher and with more expression than the Police."[10] While Kevin was always intended to be the band's lead singer, executive producer Greg Daniels approached Baumgartner about possibly playing an instrument, but the actor replied he could not play anything. Daniels and Baumgartner then discussed instruments that would be "funny" to play and brought up harmonicas, saxophones, and drums. They ultimately decided on drums because they deemed a "drumming lead singer [to] be the funniest choice," regardless of the fact that the actor had "absolutely no drumming experience, and it's a difficult instrument."[10]
The Season Two DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Michael creating Dunder Mifflin Mad Libs, Dwight and Jim choosing their charities, Dwight considering Jim's telekinetic powers, an extension of Michael's scene with Darryl, Pam finding planning a wedding stressful, Meredith and the casino dealer sharing a past.[11]
On the phone with Jan, Michael compares the performance of the Scranton branch of Dunder Mifflin to the biblical story of David and Goliath. He later tells her that she's the "Eva Peron to his Cesar Chavez".[12] He later answers a phone from her by saying "Jan Levinson, I presume", a reference to the quote "Dr. Livingstone, I Presume", supposedly said by Henry Morton Stanley to David Livingstone after the former met the latter on the shores of Lake Tanganyika in 1871.[12] Michael reasons that the money from the casino night should benefit the Boy Scouts of America because "They don't have cookies like the Girl Scouts!"[12] He later states that he will donate all of his charity winnings to Comic Relief, a British charity. Kelly reasons that she would donate her winnings to Kobe Bryant's foundation, only because he bought his wife a large ring.[12]
When Michael mentions donating money to "Afghanistanis with AIDS", the conversation gets confused, and the various office workers begin talking about Afghanis, Afghans, and the nonsensical "Afghanistanannis".[12] In a talking head, Michael notes that AIDS is not a humorous disease, and is one of the many things that is off-topic in comedy, including the assassination of John F. Kennedy and The Holocaust. However, he notes that the assassination of Abraham Lincoln recently became funny. While looking through the various cover bands, Jim and Pam stumble upon a Kiss tribute and Jim tells Pam that her wedding should have three stages like Lollapalooza. Kevin's band is playing a cover of "Don't Stand So Close to Me" by The Police.[12]
"Casino Night" originally aired on NBC in the United States on May 11, 2006.[13] The episode received a 3.9 rating/10 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[14] This means that it was seen by 3.9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[14] The episode was viewed by 7.7 million viewers, and retained 93 percent of its lead-in "My Name is Earl" audience.[14] For his work on this episode, Steve Carell was nominated for and won the Writers Guild of America Award for Television: Episodic Comedy.[15]
"Casino Night" received widespread critical acclaim from television critics. Michael Sciannamea of TV Squad stated that "This episode, the season finale, was, in a word, brilliant. You could not ask for a better way to tie up story lines that occurred over the course of a season while opening up new ones at the same time."[16] Sciannamea went on to praise Carell's writing, as well as the progression of the relationship arcs in the show.[16] Brian Zoromski of IGN said that "'Casino Night,' was full of great character development, awkward situations and laugh-out-loud moments."[17] Zoromski enjoyed the unfolding of the Jim-Pam relationship during the latter half of season two, and the climax of it in the season finale.  He also enjoyed and praised the development of two minor characters, Kevin Malone and Creed Bratton, the latter played by the actor of the same name. He ultimately awarded the episode a ten out of ten, denoting a "Masterpiece".[17] Jacob Cliffton of Television Without Pity awarded the episode an "A".[12] Gillian Flynn of Entertainment Weekly noted that, unlike other shows that featured resolved sexual tension, The Office was in no worry of being cancelled. She based this deduction on the fact that the show "isn't based entirely on the endearing flirtation between" Jim and Pam.[18] In a 2011 poll conducted by fansite OfficeTally, fans voted "Casino Night" as their favorite of all Office episodes that had been aired at that time.[19]



"Casual Friday" is the twenty-sixth episode of the fifth season of the television series The Office and the 98th overall episode of the series. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on April 30, 2009. In this episode, Michael, Pam and Ryan return to Dunder Mifflin as salespeople, and other members of the sales staff become upset when they do not get their old clients back that the Michael Scott Paper Company stole from them. Meanwhile, Jim tries to remain neutral about the situation and plays board games with Creed, and Casual Friday is reinstated in the office, with mixed results.
The episode was written by Anthony Q. Farrell and directed by Brent Forrester. The episode received generally positive reviews, with several commentators expressing relief that the series appeared to remain fresh following the six-episode "Michael Scott Paper Company" story arc, which had ended in the previous episode, "Broke". According to Nielsen ratings, "Casual Friday" was watched by 7.3 million viewers during its original broadcast, marking the lowest original episode rating of the fifth season until the May 14 season finale, "Company Picnic".
In the cold open, Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) arrives early and brings in a huge pot of chili for the staff to enjoy. As he narrates (in voice-over) the pride he takes in his chili and how much hard work went into it, he accidentally spills the pot’s contents all over the floor and begins using nearby binders to shovel it back into the pot while getting it all over himself.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) has returned to his old job as regional manager of the Dunder Mifflin Scranton branch and announces that Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) and Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) have joined the sales team, retaining their old clients from the Michael Scott Paper Company. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) and Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) are upset because most of those clients were ones Michael previously stole from them. They are also upset that Michael treats Pam and Ryan with more respect because they were the only people to follow him to his new company, with Michael believing his company operates within the branch despite the buyout. Dwight calls a secret meeting in the warehouse with the salespeople, minus Pam and Ryan, to think of a way to get their clients back.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), trying to remain impartial, informs Michael of the potential mutiny and heads to the break room to play board games with Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) until the conflict is resolved. In response, Michael, Pam and Ryan eat the rest of the sale's staff lunch after they explain their disappearance by stating they went out to lunch together. Things take a turn for the worse when Dwight interrupts a sale call Ryan is having with one of his former clients (who is making his first complaint in 10 years as a result of a mistake by Ryan), causing him to lose the client for which Pam blames Dwight. Having finally had enough, Dwight calls the two of them out for their inexperience as salespeople and Michael steps in and demands that Dwight make up with Ryan. Dwight refuses and he, Andy, Phyllis and Stanley threaten to quit and start their own paper company unless they get their clients back. When Michael calls their bluff and starts rudely throwing "seed money" at them and demands an apology from them for having not followed him when he quit, Phyllis breaks down and says that they were the real victims of Michael's company, not corporate, and that they were hurt since Michael had treated them like family. Michael is taken aback by her words.
It is Casual Friday and most people dress too loosely at the office. Angela (Angela Kinsey) complains to Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) about Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) wearing sandals to work and having to look at his feet. Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) disgusts the rest of the employees by wearing a very short dress without any panties or a bra, thus exposing herself to the rest of the office as she tries to adjust it to meet Toby's requests. Toby calls a meeting with everyone regarding Casual Friday. When Dwight tries to take charge of the meeting, Toby is finally stern with him and cancels Casual Friday, much to everyone's disappointment.
Michael calls a meeting with Dwight, Andy, Phyllis and Stanley to give them a formal apology, but they do not accept it since all they want is their clients back. Michael reluctantly agrees to give back their clients. In doing so, however, there are not enough clients to keep both Pam and Ryan on the sales team, leaving Michael to decide which one to keep. He talks it over with Jim, who suggests Pam would be better suited, but Michael argues that Jim is biased since Pam is his fiancée. Michael calls a meeting with Pam and tells her she did not get the sales job. Pam is visibly disappointed, but Michael starts laughing and tells her that she did get it, having offered Ryan a temp position again. Pam tells him he should stop with the "fake-firing" joke, but Michael decides to pull the joke on the new receptionist, Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper).
"Casual Friday" was written by Anthony Q. Farrell and directed by Brent Forrester. The official website for The Office included two cut scenes from "Casual Friday" within a week of its original release. In the first 50-second clip, Jim welcomes Pam to her new sales desk with a gift of a model of an island with figures representing Jim, Pam and Dwight, who share the office pod together. Dwight insists he did not have anything to do with the gift and does not welcome Pam to the desk because she "obscures my view of the shredder."[1] In the second 50-second clip, Dwight tells Andy, Stanley and Phyllis that they should "put our balls in the guillotine, as they say," by threatening to quit if Michael does not give their clients back. The others express doubt and wonder if they should keep quiet in order to protect their jobs.[2]
Originally, Michael was supposed to spill the chili, but it was changed to Kevin to give him a moment in the episode. The crew did it in a single take but the set took several hours to clean afterwards.[3]
Ryan makes reference to Michael Chiklis in The Shield; Michael is not familiar with the show, but recognizes the actor from The Commish. Erin says that Kelly looks like J-Lo in her outfit, a reference to the actress and singer Jennifer Lopez.[4]  Kevin is shown to drive a Honda CR-V.
"Casual Friday" included several callbacks to previous episodes. The scene in which Michael pretends to fire Pam, and she tells him, "Maybe you shouldn't fake fire people anymore," is a reference to the first episode of The Office, in which Michael pretends to fire Pam as a prank and she becomes very upset, which he then does exactly to Erin.[5] Michael compares the difficult choice of choosing between renting the movies The Devil Wears Prada and Sophie's Choice, both of which star Meryl Streep.[6] The reference to the former film is a callback to the cold open to fourth season episode, "Money", in which Michael discusses having watched the movie recently and acts rudely toward Pam in the same fashion as Miranda Priestly, the film's antagonist, who is played by Streep.[7]  When Dwight is writing the secret messages, he uses Ryan's coffee mug that Kelly gave to him from the "Customer Survey" episode, to hold the urine.
In its original American broadcast on April 30, 2009, "Casual Friday" was watched by 7.3 million viewers, according to Nielsen ratings. It was the lowest original episode rating of the fifth season at the time of its broadcast,[8] although the season finale "Company Picnic", would later receive a lower rating on May 14, being watched by 6.72 million viewers.[9] "Casual Friday" received a 4.2 rating/12 share among viewers aged between 18 and 34, and a 3.7 rating/10 share among viewers between 18 and 49.[8] The episode received generally positive reviews. Most reviewers particularly praised the opening scene with Kevin dropping his pot of chili;[5][6][10][11] Fickett called it "a great silent comedy moment [and] a quintessential Office moment".[10]
Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger praised the episode, saying that it proves the show will still be good following the "Michael Scott Paper Company" arc, which he referred to as one of the best storylines in the show's history. Sepinwall said he thought all the supporting characters were excellent, and that he particularly liked the new adversarial dynamic between Michael and Dwight.[5] Margaret Lyons of Entertainment Weekly said, "This was the episode I've been waiting for weeks." She said she particularly enjoyed many of the subplots involving Kelly's clothing, Creed's chess game with Jim, and Toby dealing with casual Friday problems.[4] Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club gave "Casual Friday" a B+ grade, and said the episode had good character moments and a bit of dramatic depth in addition to a few good laughs.[6]
Travis Fickett in IGN said Creed, Kevin, Meredith and Toby were all in top form in "Casual Friday", and said he enjoyed the changes that resulted in Michael's departure from and return to the company. However, Fickett questioned what direction the show would go now that so many questions have been resolved.[10] Jay Black of TV Squad said the conflict between Michael and his co-workers was very good, and he enjoys the way Phyllis revealed how hurt she was by Michael's departure from the company; however, Black said he did not like that the episode included a "Casual Friday" even though the office had never had one before.[12] Rick Porter of Zap2it said the supporting characters were all in top form and that the episode demonstrated how Michael, in offering a genuine apology, has grown this season. Porter also praised the scenes with Jim and Creed, and described Kate Flannery as "one of the most fearless actresses on TV" for her scene with the short bathing suit.[13] Josh McAuliffe of The Times-Tribune called the episode "yet another winner in what's shaping up to be a terrific last third of the season".[11]
"Casual Friday" was voted the sixteenth highest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 7.95 out of 10.[14]


"The Fight" is the sixth episode of the second season of the television series The Office and the show's twelfth episode overall. It was written by Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg and directed by Ken Kwapis. It originally aired on November 1, 2005, on NBC. "The Fight" guest starred Lance Krall, who played the part of Dwight's sensei, Ira.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell), after being embarrassed by Dwight Schrute's (Rainn Wilson) superior fighting skills, engages in a karate match with Dwight during lunch. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) flirting with Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) goes too far.
"The Fight" was known as "Karate" and "The Dojo" by members of the cast and crew due to many of the scenes featuring the titular fight. Several of the cast members of the show—recurring and starring—had martial arts experience. The episode contained several cultural references, with many referring to popular fighting-related movies and television shows. "The Fight" received largely positive reviews from critics. The episode earned a Nielsen rating of 3.9 in the 18–49 demographic and was viewed by 7.9 million viewers.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) has one task: sign routine documents. Unfortunately, it's a month where three separate sets of paperwork are due at the same time, so Michael mulishly ignores his workload. To procrastinate, Michael makes Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) update emergency contact information of the staff. When Michael gets Ryan's cell phone number, he constantly prank calls Ryan with crude impersonations of Michael Jackson, Mike Tyson, and Saddam Hussein.
Talk of Dwight Schrute's (Rainn Wilson) karate experience gets Michael's competitive juices flowing, leading to a lunchtime match between the two at Dwight's dojo. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) accidentally goes too far when horsing around with Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), and she abruptly shuts him down when their co-workers take notice.
After a pathetic showing by both combatants, Michael emerges victorious over Dwight, which leads to Dwight changing his emergency contact from "Michael Scott" to "The Hospital". At the end of the day, Michael promotes Dwight from his lowly "Assistant to the Regional Manager" position to his dream position: "Assistant Regional Manager" (although the "promotion" is little more than a title change only).
The office staff soon gets fed up with Michael's inability to accomplish even the simplest task, and so Pam manages to get the documents to the shipping place after Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein), Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), and Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) forge Michael's signature on the documents.
On the way out, Jim gives Pam the bag of chips he owed her from earlier. Pam quietly takes them and stares in a forgiving manner after Jim leaves.
"The Fight" was written by Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg, while Ken Kwapis served as the episode's director.[2] The episode was the first entry of the series to be written by Stupnitsky and Eisenberg; it was also Kwapis' fifth episode directed.[2][3] The episode guest starred comedian and actor Lance Krall, who portrayed Dwight's sensei, Ira.[4] B. J. Novak, who portrays Ryan Howard in the series, noted that when the episode was being filmed, the majority of the cast and crew called it "'Karate', or 'The Dojo', since the most memorable scenes involve a karate fight."[5] Novak explained that the episode centered on the effects of procrastination "carried to the nth degree".[5] However, he noted that it was more memorable as "the episode in which Steve Carell and Rainn Wilson jump-kick each other in public to try to prove a point."[5]
Several of the cast members had experience in martial arts prior to the filming of the episode. Rainn Wilson used to study karate and is a certified yellow belt. Krall is a black belt in Taekwondo and was nationally ranked. One of background actresses who played a student in Dwight's class was actually a black belt, but was forced to wear a white belt; ultimately, she was unhappy about having to hide her ability. Eventually, she vented her frustration by "practically knock[ing] Rainn over when she kicked the pad he was holding", which was included in the episode.[5] During the filming of the episode, the protective piece of headgear that Wilson wore actually cut him.[5]
During the filming of many scenes in the episode, the cast and crew members kept breaking character and laughing. Jenna Fischer recalls that she had to film the scene where Ryan reveals that he is working on emergency contacts "about 20 times".[6] In addition, Fischer noted that she and John Krasinski kept laughing "about a million times" during the kitchen confrontation between Michael and Dwight.[6] During the dojo scenes, cinematographer Randall Einhorn and Krall "lost it" when Michael pinned down. In fact, shots of Krall (and several of the cast) laughing made it into the closing scene of the episode.[6]
The Season Two DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include brief shots of Dwight at the dojo and Michael and Dwight preparing to fight, Jim asking Dwight whom he could take on in a fight, Dwight discusses the result of the fight, Stanley confronting Michael about signing the forms, Michael saying that "no one ever lost their job for missing deadlines", and Michael delivering Pam the emergency contact information.[7]
During the game of "phone tag", Michael impersonates Michael Jackson, Tito Jackson, Mike Tyson, and Saddam Hussein.[2][8] In addition, several songs are alluded to. Michael sings "I don't want to work/I just want to bang on this mug all day" to the tune of "Bang the Drum All Day" by Todd Rundgren.[2] Jim alludes to the Jets, one of the rival street gangs in the musical West Side Story, by quoting the noted lyrics "When you're a Jet, you're a Jet all the way", as well as snapping his fingers in the same way as the gang members.[8] Several popular quotes are misused in the episode: Michael consistently misuses the phrase "Catch-22", and Dwight mistakes the phrase "tit for tat" as "tit for tit".[6]
Several noted films are referenced in the episode. After grabbing Dwight in a sleeper hold, Michael nonsensically shouts out Bedtime for Bonzo, a 1951 movie starring Ronald Reagan.[2] Michael notes that Dwight cried at the end of Armageddon, a 1998 science fiction action movie starring Bruce Willis.[2] Michael's line "You talkin' to me?" is a line performed by Robert De Niro in the movie Taxi Driver. Michael mis-attributes it to Al Pacino in Raging Bull, a film Pacino did not appear in.[8] The Karate Kid franchise is referenced two separate times. Michael notes that Dwight is the "Hilary Swank version", a reference to The Next Karate Kid, the fourth movie in the Karate Kid series, starring Swank as the first female student of sensei Miyagi. Kevin later tells Dwight to "sweep the leg", a quote from the original movie.[2][8] The episode also contains several television references. Jim mocks Pam by doubting her status as an Ultimate Fighter; The Ultimate Fighter is a reality television series in the form of a martial arts competition.[2] Michael turns the insult "queer" into a reference to Queer Eye for the Straight Guy, a make-over reality television program featuring five openly gay men dispensing fashion and style advice.[2][8]
"The Fight" originally aired on NBC in the United States on November 1, 2005.[9] The episode was viewed by 7.9 million viewers and received a 3.9 rating/9% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 3.9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[10] An encore presentation of the episode, on April 25, 2006, received 3.0 rating/8% share and retained 91% of its lead in "My Name is Earl" viewership. The encore presentation was viewed by over 6.1 million viewers.[11]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B", and wrote that he enjoyed the way the important elements of the episode go "unspoken: Jim composes an apology email but doesn’t send it; the way the spectators are blocked during the main event at the dojo, there’s practically an entire office standing between Krasinski and Jenna Fischer."[12] Adams also enjoyed the way the episode wrote Pam's reaction, noting "is she generally uncomfortable, is she afraid of what Meredith might assume, or is she afraid of her own feelings?"[12]
Critical reception to the episode was largely positive. "Miss Alli" from Television Without Pity gave the episode a positive review and rated it an A−.[8] Francis Rizzo III from DVD Talk called the episode "classic", and praised the performance of Rainn Wilson as Dwight. He noted that the episode, along with several others, "wouldn't be nearly as entertaining" without his character.[13] TV Fanatic reviewed several quotes from "The Fight", and rated Michael's "Would I rather be feared or loved?" soliloquy and Michael's confession that Dwight cried at the end of Armageddon 5 out of 5.[14] In 2006, Jenna Fischer said that the episode's cold opening, featuring Jim moving Dwight's desk into the bathroom, was her favorite prank on the show.[6]

"The Whale" is the seventh episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 183rd episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC on November 15, 2012. The episode guest stars Jack Coleman as Robert Lipton and marks the return of actress Melora Hardin as Jan Levinson.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) is tasked with selling paper to a woman—who is later revealed to be Jan (Hardin)—from the Scranton White Pages, so Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) and the women of the office teach him how to interact with women.  Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) confides in Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) that her husband, Robert (Jack Coleman)—who is secretly having a relationship with Oscar—is cheating on her. Oscar helps her spy on her husband at his yoga class. Meanwhile, Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) convinces several of the men in the office to grow mustaches for "Movember".
"The Whale" received mixed reviews from television critics, with many commenting on Hardin's appearance. The episode was also viewed by 4.16 million viewers and received a 2.1/6 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking fourth in its timeslot. The episode, however, ultimately ranked as the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) Skypes into the office from his boat. He is severely sunburned, loses his supply of fresh water in the ocean, and is going mad from lack of human contact after only two days on the boat. The Skype call ends after he accidentally drops his device into the ocean.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) is tasked with winning the Scranton White Pages account. However, the CEO is a woman, and Dwight has trouble selling to women. Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) and the women of the office teach him how to interact with women. The lesson, which is supported by Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate), Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery), and Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith), goes nowhere, with Dwight unable to grasp the concept of simple niceties, and they give up. Pam goes with Dwight to the White Pages, only to find out that the buyer is Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin). Jan was expecting to meet with CEO David Wallace, and reprimands her assistant for the confusion. Pam quickly realizes that the meeting was just a ruse to take revenge on David for firing her five years prior. However, Dwight remains determined to make the sale, so he has Pam stall while he gets Clark (Clark Duke), intuiting that Jan has an attraction to underage boys due to her rumored affair with her 17-year-old former assistant Hunter. After he introduces Clark to her, Jan says she will think about it, and tells everyone to leave her office except Clark. As Pam and Dwight leave, Dwight offers a sympathetic comment to Jan's emotionally abused female assistant. Pam is pleased, seeing that some of the lessons they gave Dwight on women sunk in after all.
Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) confides in Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) that she suspects her husband, Robert (Jack Coleman)—who is secretly having a relationship with Oscar—of cheating on her. Oscar thinks that Robert may be seeing another man besides him and convinces Angela that they should spy on Robert at his yoga class. They hide outside of the class and watch as Robert spends time with a younger woman who later turns out to have a boyfriend. Oscar then notices Robert spending most of the yoga practice with a young man, which he finds suspicious. After the class, Robert phones Oscar, and his phone goes off. Oscar panics and silences the phone, and Angela immediately realizes why.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) is on a business call with the investors and members of the business venture he is up for. Many distractions from the background make the call difficult. At the end of the day, Jim apologizes, but then hears the person on the phone saying this is not working out. Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) convinces several of the men in the office to grow mustaches for "Movember". He says he is doing this to support the cure for prostate cancer but is actually using it for a chance to socialize more with the office, to no avail. Pete Miller (Jake Lacy) later shows Erin his mustache, but she finds it repulsive. He shaves it off after that.
"The Whale" was written by executive story editor Carrie Kemper, who is the younger sister of cast member Ellie Kemper, making it her third writing credit for the series.[3][4][5] It was directed by Rodman Flender, his first directing credit for the series.[5] The episode sees the return of Melora Hardin as Jan Levinson, a former character in the series who left after the early part of the fifth season.[5] Hardin, did however, make two short appearances on the show during the seventh season episodes "Sex Ed" and "Threat Level Midnight".[6][7] Ed Helms only appears in the episode's cold open; he was written out of several episodes of the season in order to film The Hangover Part III.[8]
The official website of The Office included several cut scenes from "The Whale" within a week of the episode's release. In the first 105-second clip, Toby admits to the camera his amusement that the men at Dunder Mifflin are partaking in Movember with him.[9] In the second 76-second clip, the women of Dunder Mifflin inform Dwight that his knowledge about women is severely lacking and that he has a long way to go.[10]  In the third and final 85-second clip, Dwight and Pam, while in the car, prepare for their "biggest sales call ever".[11]
The title of the episode—"The Whale"—is a reference to the popular 1851 novel Moby-Dick by Herman Melville and its main antagonist, the great white whale. The white pages, which is the sale that Dwight is attempting to make, are a listing of telephone subscribers in a geographical area or subscribers to services provided by the organization that publishes the directory. Toby organizes a Movember celebration, which is an annual, month-long event involving the growing of moustaches during the month of November to raise awareness of prostate cancer and other male cancer and associated charities.[12]
"The Whale" was scheduled to air on NBC on November 8, 2012, but the previous episode was delayed a week when it was replaced with a rerun of The Voice,[13] pushing "The Whale" to air a week later, on November 15, 2012.[2] In its original broadcast, "The Whale" was viewed by an estimated 4.16 million viewers and received a 2.1/6 percent share rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[14] This means that it was seen by 2.1 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a decrease in the ratings from the previous episode, "The Boat", which had received a 2.4 rating/6 percent.[15] The episode ranked fourth in its timeslot, being beaten by the Fox series Glee which received a 2.2/6 percent rating, an entry of the CBS drama Person of Interest which received a 2.9/7 percent rating, and an episode of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.1/8 percent rating.[14] Despite this, The Office was highest-rated NBC television program of the night.[14]
Mark Trammell of TV Equals was very pleased with the episode and wrote that "Rainn Wilson [was] clearly in his element".[16] Damon Houx of Screencrush felt that the entry was rushed, which resulted in "most characters [getting] 2- to 3-minute storylines, or—in most cases—a joke or line or two." He called it "one of the better episodes of this last season", but noted that "the show's going to end with more of a whimper than a bang".[17] Cindy White of IGN awarded the episode a 7.5 out of 10, denoting a "good" episode. White complimented Dwight and Pam's situation, as well Angela and Oscar's development. However, she noted that it "wasn't hard to imagine Michael in [Dwight's] situation". Furthermore, she compared the episode to the third-season episode "Women's Appreciation".[18]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "C" and was critical of the episode's focus on "the series' endgame", noting that the episode heavily set up both Jim and Dwight's departure.[12] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode three-and-a-half stars out of five. While enjoying the story's main plots—specifically citing Angela and Oscar's "sneak around", and Dwight's endeavor—he was critical of Jim's subplot, writing that "I couldn't care less about the issues he was facing with teleconferencing."[19]
Melora Hardin's return garnered critical attention. Forcella wrote that "Jan was definitely a welcome appearance". Furthermore, he praised her "all-around meanness" and the "hilarity of her singing".[19] Houx wrote that "the return of Jan Levinson and the final solution to get her business was pretty good."[17] Adams, on the other hand, was critical of the return of Hardin, noting that "there's little reason to justify Melora Hardin's presence in 'The Whale'" other than "an obligation [for] The Office's final-season victory lap".[12] White noted that it "was nice to see Melora Hardin in the role one last time", but wrote that "it's a shame that the show is sticking with the crazy version of the character rather than mellowing her out a bit".[18] Melora Hardin's performance was later submitted by the producers of The Office for an "Outstanding Guest Actor in Comedy Series" Emmy consideration.[20]


"Whistleblower" is the twenty-sixth and final episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 126th episode overall. It originally aired on May 20, 2010 on NBC in the United States.
In the episode, the press learns that Sabre printers catch on fire and Jo (Kathy Bates), suspecting that someone within the Scranton branch leaked the information, sets out to discover who the whistleblower is.
It was written by Warren Lieberstein and Halsted Sullivan and directed by Paul Lieberstein.[1] The episode received mixed reviews from critics and was watched in 6.60 million households.
The press finds out that Sabre's printers can overheat and catch on fire. CEO Jo Bennett (Kathy Bates) shows up to the office in hopes of finding out who the whistleblower is. Everyone suspects Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), who adamantly denies he leaked the information, even though he was the first in the office to learn of it. Jo has Nick (Nelson Franklin), the IT guy, check everyone's computer to find evidence for a potential leak, and he is constantly harassed while trying to do so. Jo and Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) interview everyone as well to find the potential leak, starting with Michael Scott (Steve Carell). Although Michael suggests some very harsh treatment of the offender, which proves his innocence to Jo, he insists that no one in the office would have leaked the information.
During the interviews, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) comes in and offers Jo a long list of people she should fire to convince her it was not him. Jo believes him and recommends that he invest the money he made this year in real estate. After a lot of consideration, Dwight decides to attempt to buy the Scranton Business Park, and suggests in a conversation with Hank (Hugh Dane) the security guard that he will implement sweeping changes to the place.
Meanwhile Michael tries to get Andy to confess he told the press. When Andy suggests that Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) could be the whistleblower, Michael confronts him. Darryl admits he told a female reporter at a bar after work about the videotaped printer catching on fire. Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) voluntarily confesses to Michael that she told another mother at the day-care center whose husband is a reporter. He asks her and Darryl to meet him in the parking lot. Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) joins them as she had revealed the news on her various social networking sites. The three suggest to Michael that he should try to talk to Jo about the situation so that they can confess but keep their jobs.
Michael tries to convince Jo to let the offenders off lightly which causes her to suspect that he knows the identity of the leak. Michael refuses to say anything, so Jo takes him to the hangar with her private jet to talk with him about his problems. Michael admits many of the stresses he has had throughout the year, including missing Holly Flax. Jo says that even though she will have to do a recall on the printers, she loathes the thought of having to make a public apology, fearing that is all she will be remembered for after she dies. Michael, who has already been enjoying the media attention over the printers so much that he enlisted the other employees to artificially raise the web counter on TV spots of him, offers to make the public apology for her.
Gabe finishes interviewing everyone and deduces that Andy is the one who talked with the press. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) defends Andy, and the office descends into haphazard speculations on the whistleblower's identity. Former CFO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) reveals himself as another leak as he heard about it from a former client and then told other former clients and potential clients out of spite. Nick announces that he is quitting to go teach inner city children in Detroit how to use computers. When Dwight and others mock him, Nick explodes and reveals personal computer information about many of the employees, including Andy's QuickTime video he shot with Darryl and a letter/email he sent to a local newspaper. The few employees who did not leak information to the press proceed to jeer at Andy for the rest of the day. However, Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) commends Andy's bravery, and he leaves smiling.
Michael gives a public apology to a news crew, after which Jo tells him to let her know if she can help with any of his problems. When Michael half-jokingly asks to bring Holly back to Scranton, Jo sincerely tells him she will look into it, leaving him at a loss for words as the episode ends.
"Whistleblower" was written by Warren Lieberstein and Halsted Sullivan and directed by Paul Lieberstein. It was Warren's and Halsted's second writing credit of the season after "Koi Pond" and Paul's fourth directing credit after "Money", "Two Weeks" and "Gossip".[1] "Whistleblower" originally aired May 20, 2010 as the twenty-sixth episode and season finale of season 6. The episode guest stars Kathy Bates as Jo Bennet, Zach Woods as Gabe Lewis, and Andy Buckley as David Wallace. It is Andy Buckley's second guest appearance after getting fired from Dunder Mifflin since "Sabre". It was Kathy Bates' fourth appearance on the show, after first appearing in "Sabre". Zach Woods made his ninth appearance on the show.
While talking with his real estate agent on his cellphone, Dwight states that the office park is 1725 Slough Avenue. "Slough" is a reference to the UK edition of The Office which is set in Slough, United Kingdom.
In its original American broadcast, "Whistleblower" was viewed by an estimated 6.60 million viewers with a 3.4 rating/10% share in the 18–49 demographic coming second in its timeslot after the season finale of Grey's Anatomy, receiving the same rating as last week's episode, "The Chump" and dropping 3% from last years finale, "Company Picnic" according to Nielsen Media Research.[2] The episode, "Whistleblower" ranked 13th in the weekly 18–49 demographic ratings and ranked becoming the highest rated show on NBC that week.[3]
Cindy White of IGN gave the episode a 7.8 saying it was "Good" and "This was probably the weakest finale in the show's history, coming in just below "Hot Girl", which ended the first six-episode run by at least introducing a new potential love interest for Jim."[4] Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club gave this episode a B+, stating "tonight’s episode capped off a solid season on a promising note, tantalizing us with the prospect of Holly’s return."[5] Joel Keller of AOL's TV Squad gave the episode a negative review for not having enough plot twists saying "'Whistleblower' was no 'Casino Night.' It wasn't even close. In fact, it sent the season out on a lame note, indicative of how up and down this season has been."[6]
Darren Franich of Entertainment Weekly gave the episode a positive review and wrote "This was an interesting way for The Office to end its sixth, and least cohesive, season: an admission that not a whole lot happened, followed by a callback to a plotline from last season. Still, there was some real heft to this closing episode—enough to give me some hope.[7] Will Leitch of New York said "The Office's season six was usually funny and always big-hearted, but there was never much at stake."[8] James Poniewozik of Time criticized the show for the lack of stakes during the season, but stated "The season finale, 'Whistleblower', in some ways was characteristic of this season, in that some of its best moments came from characters at the periphery of the story. But it was also at best a sign of what this season could have been, and ended on at least a glimmer of hope for the next one."[9]
TV Fanatic gave the episode a 3.5/5.0 saying "Instead, what shaped up like an seismic confrontation between Michael and Jo turned into a heart-to-heart of sorts. Enjoyable in its own right, yes. Epic finale material? Eh."[10] M. Giant of Television Without Pity gave the episode a B+.[11] Rick Porter of Zap2it said "While the entire conversation between Michael and Jo on her private jet was wonderful, a lot of the investigation into the leak of Sabre's printer problems was not."[12]


"The Sting" is the fifth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office and the shows 131st episode overall. It originally aired on NBC on October 21, 2010. The episode was written by co-executive producer Mindy Kaling and directed by Randall Einhorn. "The Sting" guest stars Timothy Olyphant as Danny Cordray.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, a Dunder Mifflin client is stolen by a rival salesman named Danny Cordray (Olyphant), and Michael Scott (Steve Carell), Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) decide to set up a sting in order to uncover his sales secret. Meanwhile, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) starts a band when he learns that one of his old college friends has a successful music career.
"The Sting" is the first episode of the series to feature Olyphant, who appears in a recurring capacity during the seventh season. The episode received largely positive reviews from television critics, many of whom felt that while the main plot was not realistic, it was very humorous. "The Sting" was viewed by 6.87 million viewers and received a 3.4 rating among adults between the age of 18 and 49, marking a slight drop in the ratings when compared to the previous week. Despite this, the episode ranked second in its timeslot and was the highest-rated NBC series of the night that it aired.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) are sent on assignment to make a sales pitch to a client, and are eager to land the sale. However, Danny Cordray (Timothy Olyphant), a rival paper salesman from the very small Osprey company who steals more potential sales away from Dunder Mifflin than anyone, has also arrived for a sales pitch. Dwight also reveals that Danny had a romantic history with Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) four years previously. Jim and Dwight call in Michael Scott (Steve Carell), who is ecstatic at getting a chance to make a sale, to come and try to save them. The company ends up taking Danny's offer, even after Michael promises at-cost paper sales and weekend delivery. The trio leaves the client's office and head back home, defeated.
During a brainstorm session, Michael, Jim, and Dwight decide to set up a sting operation to observe Danny's sales techniques. They set up Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) as the CEO of the fictional company Solartech in Dwight's office, fitted with security cameras, and watch from another room. Danny is then sent in to try to make a sale. All starts well until Meredith attempts to seduce him. Dwight and Jim send in Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) to save the sting, but Meredith strong-arms him into submission. After she does the same to Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), Michael rushes in to call the whole thing off after Meredith's attempts to seduce Danny escalate. Danny becomes infuriated and walks off. Michael catches up to him and offers him a job, pointing out that with Sabre's better pricing, he could make more sales as a traveling salesman for them. He accepts the offer, and Michael introduces him as the new salesman to the office. The rest of the sales staff act disrespectful towards him, worrying that Danny will take their clients. Michael tells them how well sales numbers will go up with Danny as a part of the branch, and that he is not going to rescind Danny's job offer just because it makes the other salespeople uncomfortable. Before Dwight leaves for the day, he viciously insults Danny about his alleged mistreatment of Pam and client-stealing past, then immediately welcomes him to the company.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) starts a band after reading about how well one of his friends is doing in the music business. He manages to get Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) to join him in writing a song, with Andy singing an anti-war song from the perspective of a little girl in falsetto. The song is poorly received by the rest of the office, specifically due to the “weird” notion of Andy singing in a little girl's point of view, and Andy returns to the drawing board. Seeing that Andy is dejected, Kevin and Darryl offer to stay and jam with him for a little extra time, and the trio come up with a lively song called "Bullfrog In Love".
"The Sting" was directed by Randall Einhorn and written by Mindy Kaling, who also plays Kelly Kapoor in the show.[2] It was the first episode to feature Timothy Olyphant in a guest appearance as Danny Cordray, a rival paper salesman. Olyphant would return for the season's Halloween special, "Costume Contest", and would appear in a deleted scene for Carell's penultimate episode, "Michael's Last Dundies".[3][4] Olyphant enjoyed his stint on the show, later telling IGN that filming both "The Sting" and his scenes for other episodes was "a blast" and "a kick to do" because The Office is "such a fun show, the nature of the whole thing. The way they do it is just so fun and easy."[5]
The Season Seven DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Jim and Danny discussing Danny's success at selling his father's restaurant for a large amount of money, Michael expressing his delight at helping Jim and Dwight despite the fact that he is "an old man", Michael mistaking Danny for a male model, extended scenes of Andy's band, extra footage of Meredith flirting with Danny, Michael remembering that Danny was once a backpack model, and Danny saying that the only reason he will be working at Dunder Mifflin is because "they offered [him] a stupid amount of money".[6]
In the cold opening, Oscar shows the office his new bicycle, which Kevin notes is a Lance Armstrong model. Kelly is offended, because she is "team Sheryl Crow", a reference to the two's engagement and break up.[7] The potential customer that Jim and Dwight are trying to woo shares the same name with famous athlete Steve Nash, and Jim has to explain to Dwight that the famous Nash is a point guard for the Phoenix Suns basketball team. Michael compares the plot to learn Danny's secret to the 1973 film The Sting, which starred Paul Newman and Robert Redford. Kelly notes that Danny reminds her of actor Josh Duhamel.[7] The reason for Andy forming a band is that he discovers that his friend and rival Broccoli Rob (later played in the series by Stephen Colbert) collaborated with Trey Anastasio, the lead singer and songwriter from the jam band Phish, and wrote a song together. This plot device would later be mentioned in the ninth season episode "Here Comes Treble".[8] Andy's band would become a minor story arc, and would reappear in the season eight episode "Pam's Replacement".[9]
In its original American broadcast on October 21, 2010, "The Sting" was viewed by an estimated 6.87 million viewers and received a 3.4 rating/9 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 3.4 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[10] The episode's rating dropped 11 percent from the previous episode to its lowest ever fall telecast at the time.[10][11] The episode ranked second in its timeslot, after an episode of the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) series Grey's Anatomy, and was the highest-rated NBC series of the night.[11]
Myles McNutt of The A.V. Club rated the episode with an "A" grade. He felt the episode was the "highlight" of the season. McNutt applauded that Michael was portrayed in a way that was neither "too dumb or too ignorant" and that he was able to have the final moment where he showed that he was a skilled salesman. Despite noting that the sting was not realistic, he further enjoyed that Michael, Dwight, and Jim were allowed to react to the situation rather than becoming part of it.[12] Jason Hughes of AOL's TV Squad gave the episode a positive review and praised the use of Meredith, calling her "hilarious and so spot-on". Furthermore, he, like McNutt, enjoyed that Michael was portrayed as competent in the end. Hughes also enjoyed the B-story and wrote that "it was a sweet moment when Darryl told Andy he didn't have to pay him any more to jam with them".[13]
Entertainment Weekly's Margaret Lyons wrote that, while "its out-and-out silliness wasn't in the supertraditional Office style", she "totally dug it". Furthermore, she praised Kaling's writing, saying "Leave it to Mindy Kaling to deliver the best episode of The Office in a long, long time."[14] Alan Sepinwall of HitFix gave the episode a mixed review. He felt the episode "was a complete cartoon" and also stated "It bore very little resemblance to what the show once was". Despite this he also stated, that "on its own completely absurd level, it worked" because it was very humorous; Sepinwall noted that he "found [himself] laughing a surprising amount of the time, even more than at previous episodes this season that felt more Office-like".[15]
Bonnie Stiernberg of Paste magazine awarded the episode an 8.2 rating out of 10, noting that "The Office is at its best when it has one foot planted in reality and the other drifting off into the absurd." She also enjoyed that the show illustrated Michael's actual talents as a salesman. Furthermore, Stiernberg felt that Andy's subplot helped balance the "silliness" of Michael's main plot.[16] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode four-and-a-half stars out of five and praised Olyphant's acting, writing that he "just killed it" during his appearance. He also called the entry "a big step up from last week", largely due to its entertaining main plot and its "pleasant" B-story.[17]


"The Boat" is the sixth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 182nd episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC on November 8, 2012. It guest stars Josh Groban as Andy's brother Walter.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) must help his family when his dad loses all of their money, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) is pranked into thinking he is a guest on a radio show, and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) learns of Oscar Martinez's (Oscar Nunez) affair with Angela Martin's husband.
"The Boat" received positive reviews from television critics. The episode was also viewed by 4.83 million viewers and received a 2.4/6 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking third in its timeslot, making it the highest-rated episode of the season at the time of its airing. The episode ultimately ranked as the second-highest rated NBC series of the night, after The Voice.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) learns that his father took all the family money and fled to Argentina with his mistress. Left to pick up the pieces, Andy reacts with surprising maturity and sells off family heirlooms, and is upset that he has to sell the family boat for lack of any other means for his mother to support herself. Andy explains that his father never let him sail the boat, even during his adulthood, and doesn't want to sell it before sailing it once. Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) convinces him that before he sells the boat, they should take it out for one last sunset cruise, and they drive to Stamford, Connecticut, where the boat is docked. Andy starts to hoist the main sail, but is stopped by a broker (Andrew Santino) who is to sail it to the Caribbean for the buyer. With Erin's encouragement, Andy decides to take the boat to the Caribbean himself. He then finds his drunken brother Walter (Josh Groban) passed out in the liquor closet. Walter tells Andy he wanted to get the first relapse out of the way before checking into rehab. Andy invites him on the trip, saying they both need family time together and leaves, thanking Erin for her encouragement. Erin says to the camera that she would have loved to go with him if he asked. Back in the office that evening, Pete Miller (Jake Lacy) asks Erin to join him for drinks, and she accepts.
A local radio show schedules an interview with Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) to discuss Dunder Mifflin, but, unbeknown to Dwight, the interview is later canceled. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) suggests they all use this to their advantage, and stage an interview for Dwight's benefit. Dwight believes he is talking to the interviewer through the phone in the break room, but is actually talking to Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) who is using an American accent. After tricking him into stripping to his underwear, they trick him into believing that there is a scandal involving Dunder Mifflin paper becoming toxic when exposed to oxygen, and Jim even comes in to warn him that "the stock price is plummeting" because of Dwight's interview. Dwight shifts the blame to CEO David Wallace (Andy Buckley), and they convince him that David has become disturbed and has taken a mailman hostage. Dwight calls David and tries to talk him into surrendering to the police and letting the mailman go. David is confused but nonetheless responds in a way that leads Dwight to believe he was successful. He emerges from the break room and is greeted by a round of applause from his coworkers. Pleased, Dwight remarks that the interview went "pretty much the way [he] expected".
Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) overhears Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) confessing to the camera that he is having an affair with Angela's (Angela Kinsey) husband Robert Lipton (Jack Coleman). Oscar makes Kevin promise not to reveal anything. During the day, Angela constantly makes unconscious double entendres and foreshadowing, sorely tempting Kevin to let out what he knows. Afraid that Kevin cannot keep his secret, Oscar tries to frame Kevin so that Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) will have him fired, but later confesses to Toby that he lied. Later, Robert visits the office, and Oscar acts unnaturally nervous around him. Before Angela's suspicions can be aroused, Kevin interrupts to cheer Robert on about his upcoming election. Oscar says to the camera that he is proud of how Kevin kept the secret, but Kevin then reveals that he momentarily forgot all about the secret, and begins to laugh uncontrollably that Angela's life "is a complete sham."
"The Boat" was written by executive producer Dan Sterling, his first credit for the series. He was hired before production on the ninth season started as executive producer, to replace Mindy Kaling, who departed full-time involvement on the series following the eighth season.[2] The episode was also directed by series cast member John Krasinski, his third directing credit for the series after the sixth season episode "Sabre" and the eighth-season episode, "Lotto".[3][4][5] The episode features the return of Andy's brother, Walter Jr., played by Josh Groban, who is now a drunk.[6] He previously appeared in the eighth season episode, "Garden Party".[6] The episode also guest stars Andy Buckley in voice only. Buckley portrayed David Wallace, the CFO of Dunder Mifflin from seasons two to six. He was recently brought back on board near the end of season eight.[7] Following this episode, Ed Helms was written out of several episodes, in order to film The Hangover Part III.[8]
The official website of The Office included several cut scenes from "The Boat" within a week of the episode's release. In the first 57-second clip, Dwight gets mad when Jim is called a superior salesman and when Nellie claims beet farmers and Battlestar Galactica fans have low IQ levels, during the radio show prank.[9] In the second 53-second clip, Erin goes through several attempts to cheer up Andy.[10] In the third 37-second clip, more scenes from the false hostage situation are seen.[11]
Dwight claims that the radio is using gotcha journalism. In order to cover up for Oscar, Kevin starts chanting "U-S-A!", a popular Olympic chant. When Oscar admits that he lied to Toby, Toby goes on a tangential rant about the Scranton Strangler, a reference to a minor plot development that occurred during the show's sixth and seventh seasons.[12]
"The Boat" was originally scheduled to air on NBC on November 1, 2012, but was replaced with a rerun of The Voice. NBC claimed it was for those affected by Hurricane Sandy, however the schedule change happened nationwide.[13] It eventually aired a week later, on November 8, 2012.[14] In its original broadcast, "The Boat" was viewed by an estimated 4.83 million viewers and received a 2.4 rating/6 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[15] This means that it was seen by 2.4 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked an increase in the ratings from the previous episode, "Here Comes Treble", which had reached a series low in the ratings.[16] The episode tied with the Fox series Glee for third in its timeslot, being beaten by an episode of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.3/8 percent rating and an entry of the CBS drama Person of Interest, which received a 2.9/8 percent rating.[15] The Office was also the second highest-rated NBC television program of the night, after an episode of The Voice.[15]
"The Boat" received mostly positive reviews from television critics. The A.V. Club reviewer Erik Adams called it "another solid late-period episode", praising Rainn Wilson's commitment to Dwight throughout the main plotline. He also complimented the Andy-Erin subplot, and considered it superior to the previous episode for featuring more consistency in Andy's characterization. He also complimented Dan Sterling and John Krasinski's work on the episode, saying that the script made "good on previous hints that Andy and Erin's story won't end like Jim and Pam's" and that Krasinski's direction added "just enough energy not to feel overwhelming". He gave the episode a "B+".[17] IGN writer Cindy White called the episode a "pleasant surprise", for its use of the supporting characters and its development of the season's plotlines. She complimented most of the subplots, and compared Pete and Erin's romance to Jim and Pam's from the early seasons of the series. Her only complaint was Andy's characterization throughout the episode and the ninth season, as a whole, for being "mopey and self-obsessed." Despite this, she gave the episode an 8.0/10, calling it "Great".[8] WhatCulture! reviewer Joseph Kratzer gave the episode four stars out of five, praising the episode for making the previously unsuccessful Oscar-Senator storyline and the Andy's bankrupt family storyline entertaining. He also complimented the fact that Jim and Pam's bickering from the previous episode was not expanded upon, and praised their prank on Dwight, calling it a "great bit" and "an excellent comedic balance to the more serious story of Andy's inner demons."[18]
Michael Tedder of New York called the episode "the single funniest episode of the show since Steve Carell left" and praised Brian Baumgartner's performance for hitting "notes of sweetness, frustration, and emotional confusion that normally get written for the topliners". He also praised the plotlines, writing that "what made this episode so great was that not only did every plot line work ... but every moment positively sang". He gave the episode five stars, concluding that "The Office still has some surprises in it".[19]



"A Benihana Christmas" is the tenth and eleventh episodes of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the thirty-eighth and thirty-ninth episodes overall. It was written by Jennifer Celotta and directed by Harold Ramis. The episode originally aired in the United States on December 14, 2006, on NBC.
In the episode, Christmas time at the office leads to depression for Michael, when his girlfriend Carol (Nancy Walls) breaks up with him. Michael, Andy, Dwight, and Jim then go to a local Benihana restaurant, where Michael and Andy find dates with two of the restaurant's waitresses. Back at the office, after a conflict with a bossy Angela, Karen and Pam decide to create their own Christmas party. When the majority of the office decide to go to Karen and Pam's party, Angela becomes upset, and seeing this, Karen and Pam decide to combine the parties. Soon after, Michael and Andy's dates leave them, but Michael nevertheless finds someone to go to Jamaica with him.
Carol Stills (Nancy Carell) confronts Michael Scott (Steve Carell) about the Christmas card he sent her, in which he superimposed his head on the body of Carol's former husband in a family photo. She breaks off the relationship, leaving Michael heartbroken and stuck with a pair of tickets to Jamaica. For the past several months, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) has led Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) to believe that he is being recruited by the CIA, and her gift to Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) is that he can choose Dwight's first assignment. Jim declines the gift and claims that as the new office "Number Two" he should not be engaging in such activities, leaving Pam discouraged by a changed Jim.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) takes Michael to Benihana to help him forget his recent troubles; Michael drags Dwight and Jim along. The group stumbles upon an unexpecting couple (Anne Sertich and Stephen Saux) at the table and Dwight fails when attempting to impress the chef with his knowledge of Japanese knives. Andy successfully isolates Dwight from the rest of the party and convinces Michael to ask out their waitress, Cindy (Brittany Ishibashi). Meanwhile, Jim plays pranks on Dwight and realizes that his excuse for declining Pam's gift does not hold water.
Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) kicks Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) off the Party Planning Committee. In response, Pam reaches out to Karen, and the two plan a rival party. Jim appears uncomfortable with Pam and Karen's new friendship. Roy comes into the break room and chats with Pam. After he leaves, Karen suggests that Pam should date Roy. Pam pauses to tell Karen her history with Roy before instead replying with "maybe". The rival Christmas parties begin, and the office staff members are forced to choose sides. Pam and Karen's party is a hit, while Angela's is a dreary affair. Michael and Andy each return with a waitress as their "new girlfriend" (though neither is the one who waited on them at the restaurant). Angela accepts Pam's offer to merge the parties. Oscar enters the office with his partner Gil just as Angela is singing "The Little Drummer Boy," pauses for a moment, says, "Too soon" and leaves.
Meanwhile, Michael is unable to tell the two waitresses apart. To remedy this, he secretly marks his date's arm with a Sharpie. When he offers to take her to Jamaica, she declines and says that she has to attend school, and the two waitresses leave the party because it "blows".
Jim consoles Michael by explaining that he just had a "rebound" relationship. Jim mentions that they are fun for a while, but then you keep on thinking about the girl that broke your heart, implying he still thinks about Pam (the girl who "broke his heart"). From his office, Michael makes a phone call and asks an unknown person to go to Jamaica with him. The offer is accepted. Pam is crushed when she sees Jim and Karen exchange gifts. Jim is crushed when he sees Roy give a gift to Pam.
At the end of the day, Jim tells Pam that a helicopter will be arriving to take Dwight to a welcoming party at CIA headquarters in Langley, Virginia. As Dwight waits on the roof, he receives the text message: "You have been compromised. Abort mission. Destroy phone." Dwight throws his phone off the roof and walks away.
"A Benihana Christmas" was written by Jennifer Celotta and directed by Harold Ramis.[2] Ramis would return to direct the third-season episodes "Safety Training" and "Beach Games", as well as the sixth-season episode "The Delivery" (Pt. II).[3]
The episode was shot in a real Benihana restaurant in Encino, California. The production crew hired all of the restaurant's chefs and waitstaff, along with 78 background actors, to play in the episode.[4] During filming, John Krasinski threw a shrimp across the table at Rainn Wilson. It bounced off Dwight's glasses and landed in the glass of water from which he was about to drink; according to actor Ed Helms, "It was a one-in-a-million shot that pretty much shut down the set for five or 10 minutes of applause."[5] Ultimately, however, Ramis decided not to use the footage because it looked so improbable as to be unbelievable.[5]
The actresses who played the women that Andy and Michael bring back to the office were different from the actresses who played the waitresses in the Benihana restaurant. According to the show's prop master, this was because Andy and Michael failed to pick up the original waitresses, and settled for "less attractive ones".[6] However, at Paley Fest 2007, Greg Daniels admitted that the women they cast were "too good-looking", which led to the joke failing since the original script specifically called for Andy and Michael's dates to be unattractive.[6]
"A Benihana Christmas" was first broadcast on December 14, 2006, in the United States. According to estimates by Nielsen Media Research the episode was watched by an estimated 8.44 million viewers. The episode earned a 3.9/11 ratings share among adults aged 18 to 49, meaning that it was seen by 3.9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of broadcast. Among that demographic, The Office finished in twenty-first place for the week among all of the major networks.[7] On the day that the episode first aired, it was the second most watched show of the night, behind only CBS's Survivor: Cook Islands.[8]

"A Benihana Christmas" was generally well received by critics. The episode was also given a 9.2 out of 10 rating by IGN.[9] An IGN review stated: .mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 32px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}This week marked the second year in a row The Office has done a Christmas episode, and it's already become such a great way to play the characters off each other, that we can't help but hope they continue the tradition every season. To be fair, at a full hour, this episode was perhaps a bit too much of a good thing, as the first 15 minutes or so were a bit sluggish. But even then, there were amusing moments to be had, such as Dwight arguing with Toby over whether he could cook a dead goose he brought in – [h]aving hit it with his car, he considered it a "Christmas miracle".[9] – Eric Goldman, IGNYears after the episode originally aired, the storyline involving the Benihana waitresses received renewed scrutiny in the wake of acknowledgement of racism against Asian Americans. Kat Ahn, the actress who played the waitress that Michael brought back to the office, said in an interview with The Washington Post that she was disenchanted upon realizing she had been cast on the show "just… to be the joke".[10] Ahn also posted a video on TikTok, which she explained "The storyline with myself and the other Asian American actress is that we were the uglier versions of the actresses at the Benihana. Also that all Asian people look alike. We're one big monolith and just one big walking stereotype without any personality or any individuality, which is problematic. The whole joke was that all Asians look alike and that's why Michael Scott couldn't tell us apart."[10] In a 2020 episode of the Office Ladies podcast, Jenna Fischer and Angela Kinsey noted that they cringed when re-watching the episode in 2020, and reflected that "the storyline would [not] have been written today."[4]


"Goodbye, Michael" is the twenty-second[a] episode of the seventh season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 148th episode overall. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on April 28, 2011. In the episode, Michael prepares to leave for Colorado with Holly and spends his last day in the office saying goodbye to everyone individually, wanting no drama to ensue. Meanwhile, new manager Deangelo and Andy try to keep Michael's biggest clients.
The episode was written by series developer and executive producer Greg Daniels and was directed by Paul Feig, marking his fifteenth and final directing credit on the show. It marks the final appearance of Steve Carell as a series regular, having announced he was leaving the series near the end of the sixth season. Additionally, it is also Amy Ryan’s final appearance on the show, although she only provided her voice for the episode. The episode aired in an extended 50-minute timeslot, having originally been meant to be a two-parter combined with the previous episode, "Michael's Last Dundies".[1] The episode featured guest appearances from Will Ferrell and Jack Coleman, and Andy Buckley appeared in a deleted scene.[b]
"Goodbye, Michael" was met with critical acclaim from critics and fans and is considered one of the best episodes of The Office. The later seasons that followed this airing, especially the eighth season, as well as the last few episodes of the seventh season, received criticism for a decline in quality, and multiple critics believed that the episode could have served as a potential series finale. In a poll conducted by fansite OfficeTally, the episode was named the best episode of the seventh season. The episode was viewed by 8.416 million viewers and received a 4.2 rating/11% share in the 18–49 demographic, making it the third-highest-rated episode of the season among adults between ages 18 and 49. It later received two Primetime Emmy Award nominations for Carell and Daniels' work on the episode.
KUAM in Guam aired the episode on Sunday, May 1, 2011, due to the Royal Wedding, which aired the next morning on most NBC Stations, preempting the episode.[2]
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) arrives at work for what he claims is his second-to-last day before he moves to Colorado to live with his fiancée, Holly Flax (Amy Ryan). As the day progresses, he tries to have an individual goodbye with each employee. A phone call with Holly reveals that this is his last day, and he is flying out to Colorado that night. After having a few mini-crises, including getting cold feet, he starts to break down, terrified of leaving his employees, but regains his composure after speaking with Holly. Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) leaves the office to supposedly run errands, but actually takes a break from the workday to see The King's Speech before Michael can say his goodbye to her.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) is given Michael's client list as a going-away present, much to the shock and envy of the other salesmen, and after losing one, requests the help of Deangelo Vickers (Will Ferrell) to retain them. Deangelo nearly ruins a relationship with a client but Andy gains enough confidence to salvage the sale. Along the way, Deangelo reveals that he was not hired for his business experience, but because he helped prevent the theft of one of Sabre CEO Jo Bennett's dogs. Meanwhile, Dwight (Rainn Wilson) is antagonistic towards Michael, still bitter over Michael not recommending him for a manager position, despite Michael's attempts to reconcile. He initially expresses disdain for Michael's going-away present, a recommendation letter, but appears touched as he reads that Michael genuinely considered him a friend. He also discovers a card challenging him to a paintball match, and the two play behind the building.
Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) is taking Erin Hannon's (Ellie Kemper) public breakup badly.  He makes several threats against Andy, who had dated Erin before she dated Gabe, and even follows Erin into the women's bathroom to make his case, much to the disdain of Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton). Michael advises Erin that she does not necessarily need to choose Andy or Gabe, and that she will know when the right guy comes along.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) deduces over the course of the day that Michael is leaving early and confronts him about it. Michael admits his plans and begins a personal goodbye but breaks down. Jim, trying to hold back tears, in turn says that Michael was the best boss he ever had, and they jokingly promise to have a proper goodbye over lunch the next day. Michael's cab to the airport  arrives, and Michael silently departs after one last look at the employees. His cab pulls out of the parking lot just as Pam is pulling in. At Wilkes-Barre/Scranton International Airport, Michael asks the camera crew to inform him if the documentary ever airs, then turns over his microphone, quipping one last "That's what she said" about how good it will feel to "get this thing [the mic] off [his] chest." He begins to walk off when Pam makes it past security and runs up to him. They hug twice and exchange unheard goodbyes. Pam says in an interview that Michael was not sad, that he was hopeful and excited to start his new life with Holly. Pam stands at the gate and watches Michael's plane take off.
In the epilogue, the entire staff waits in the conference room for Michael to arrive for his farewell party, unaware he has already left, with the exception of Jim and Pam. When Deangelo deduces Michael is not coming, he begins tearing pieces off Michael's farewell cake, which he had been debating whether to eat the previous day, and throwing them in the trash, in a bizarre public internal struggle over his dieting. The rest of the staff, particularly Jim and Dwight, watch their new boss's outburst with concern.
"Goodbye, Michael" was written by series developer and executive producer Greg Daniels, his 10th writing credit of the series. The episode was directed by Paul Feig, marking his 14th credit for the series. On June 28, 2010, it was confirmed that the seventh season of The Office would be Steve Carell's last.[3] He had previously announced this while being interviewed on BBC Radio.[4] "I just think it's time... I want to fulfill my contract. When I first signed on I had a contract for seven seasons, and this coming year is my seventh. I just thought it was time for my character to go," Carell was quoted as saying.[3] In January 2011, it was announced that Carell would exit the show early, four episodes before the end of the season.[5] A few weeks after this announcement came the news that Will Ferrell, who previously starred alongside Carell in Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy, had signed on to appear in a four-episode arc as a Dunder Mifflin branch manager who temporarily takes Michael Scott's position in Scranton.[6] To help ease the transition, Ferrell appeared in Carell's final three episodes as well as one additional episode after he departs.[6]
The writers had gone through different scenarios on how Michael would leave with one suggestion being that he was fired due to a business mistake.[7] They ultimately decided that ending would not be "as much fun for the viewers".[7] According to Daniels, the cast members became "very emotional" while filming on set and would often be "sadder than their characters were supposed to be".[8] Andy Buckley confirmed filming a scene saying goodbye to Michael as David Wallace; however, these scenes were deleted from the network airing. When the episode re-aired three weeks later, it was split into two parts, and Wallace's scene was inserted into the first part.[9] Steve Carell finished filming his final scenes for "Goodbye, Michael" on March 4, 2011.[10] As a goodbye gift, Carell was given a hockey jersey with the #1—his number on the call sheet.[8] After Carell's departure the number was no longer used.[8] The episode ran for an extended 50 minutes instead of the usual 30 minutes.[1] The episode marks the first extended episode since the third season penultimate episode, "Beach Games".[11] Greg Daniels stated in an interview with Entertainment Weekly that due to Ferrell's performance and Michael's goodbyes, the episode "ended up being real long".[8] NBC Entertainment Chairman Robert Greenblatt allowed Daniels to "do whatever is best [...] to give Steve [Carell] the proper goodbye.[8]
In May 2018, Fischer revealed via Instagram what Pam and Michael said in their farewell scene. "That was me talking to Steve [Carell]. I told him all the ways I was going to miss him when he left our show. Those were real tears and a real goodbye."[12]
During production, a scene involving Michael and Stanley was cut. In the scene, Michael attempts to do one last crossword with Stanley "as brothers", but Stanley refuses. Michael insists, however, and ends up making him drop the book, only to reveal that the crossword book was in fact filled with ecchi manga. Defending himself, Stanley simply says "It's called hentai. And it's art." The scene has since evolved into an Internet meme, possibly due to Stanley's calm response to the incident.
"Goodbye, Michael" features several references to previous episodes. During one scene, Michael puts his Dundie on his desk, a homage to the final shot in the series opening sequence.[13] Michael's obsession with basketball and wanting to use the baler serves as a reference to the season one episode, "Basketball" and the season three episode "Safety Training", respectively.[13][14] Michael's character Ping appears, having previously appeared in "The Dundies" and "The Seminar."[13] It also featured the reforming of the Party Planning Committee after being broken up in "Moroccan Christmas", and briefly showed Creed's continual habit of using the women's bathroom as seen in "Women's Appreciation".[13][15] Michael gives Darryl his book "Somehow I Manage", which was originally mentioned in "Happy Hour."[14] Two callbacks are made to the episode "Christmas Party": Phyllis' gift to Michael being homemade sewn mittens and Dwight wanting to play paintball with Michael.[14] Michael's goodbye to Pam serves as a homage to a scene in the British version of The Office, in which Tim Canterbury proclaims his love for Dawn Tinsley in a meeting room, but Tim turns off his microphone first so the cameras pick up only their reactions and no sound.[16] This scene was also referenced in the fifth season finale, "Company Picnic".[16]
"Goodbye, Michael" originally aired on April 28, 2011, in a 50-minute timeslot from 9 p.m. ET to 9:50 p.m. ET.[8] Nielsen ratings were expected to be high since it was Carell's last episode and also due to the extended timeslot with 22.66% of readers of TV by the Numbers predicting the episode would receive above a 6.0 rating in the 18–49 demographic.[17] In fact, the episode was viewed by an estimated 8.416 million viewers and received a 4.2 rating/11% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[18] This means that it was seen by 4.2% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This represented a 26% ratings increase from the previous episode, "Michael's Last Dundies".[18][19] This made the episode the most-watched episode of the season and the third-highest-rated episode of the season after "Ultimatum" and "Nepotism" in the 18–49 demo.[18] The episode ranked first in its timeslot beating Grey's Anatomy, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation and Bones.[20] "Goodbye, Michael"  was the most-watched scripted show for the week of broadcast among adults aged 18–49 and the second highest-rated NBC program after The Voice.[21] Added with DVR viewers, "Goodbye, Michael" received a 5.9 rating marking a 37 percent rise from the original viewership.[22] The first half-hour of the producer's cut received a 2.76 million viewers, and a 1.1 rating/3% share in the 18–49 demographic, while the second half-hour attained 2 million viewers and a 0.9 rating/3% share in the 18–49 demographic.[23]
No one seems to nail these characters like Daniels does. It was a daunting challenge to write off Michael in a way that was emotionally satisfying, true to the spirit of the show, but also funny. Daniels expertly walked that tightrope, and threw in some treats for longtime fans as well.
Cindy White, IGN[13]"Goodbye, Michael" was met with critical acclaim and is considered one of the best episodes of The Office by critics and fans. Cindy White of IGN said that overall the episode was "one of those historic television moments".[13] She went on to praise the character's awareness of the camera crew along with Michael saying his goodbyes to the staff.[13] She ultimately gave the episode a 9 out of 10.[13] The A.V. Club writer Myles McNutt considered the episode to be a classic and praised Greg Daniels choice of showing "their [fans] Michael Scott".[24] He ultimately gave the episode an A.[24] TV Squad writer Joel Keller wrote the episode felt like the series finale and that "As final episodes go, this one was a mixed bag".[25] Entertainment Weekly's Hillary Busis praised Carell's performance.[26] HitFix writer Daniel Feinberg wrote that while the episode "wasn't flawless" it was "an appropriate disentanglement".[27] Despite this, he criticized the episode for proving the point that the show could not survive without Michael.[27] Despite this he complimented the performance of the supporting actors.[27] New York writer Phoebe Reilly slightly criticized Pam's silent goodbye to Michael.[28] Despite this, she said, Dwight's tears in his talking head and Jim's goodbye to Michael "achieved the bearable level of poignancy".[28] Rob Sheffield of Rolling Stone praised the ending of the episode and the reference to the original British version of The Office.[16] BuddyTV writer Meghan Carlson called Oscar's scarecrow gift scene the best moment of the episode.[29] HitFix reviewer Alan Sepinwall called the episode "a pretty fantastic tribute to that man on his way out the door."[15]
Will Ferrell's performance received mixed reviews from critics. Rob Sheffield called his performance "pure magic",[16] while Miles McNutt said that his scenes were a "momentum killer".[24] Cindy White criticized the writers for waiting for Ferrell's second-to last episode to give his character a "juicy quirk".[13] Soon after the episode's airdate, the series received publicity for a possible storyline featuring Phyllis as Erin's birth mother.[30][31] The rumor was started during an interview with executive producer Greg Daniels with Entertainment Weekly in which he stated "A tiny mystery story – which I'm not sure anyone’s going to catch and will come out a few episodes from now – is being set up here".[8] This was further explored in the seventh season finale, "Search Committee", in which the possibility was disproven.[32]
The episode has also been put on several top ten lists for 2011. Time reviewer James Poniewozik named the episode the second-best television episode of 2011 calling the episode "pitch-perfect".[33] The A.V. Club named the episode among the top 2011 TV highlights.[34] David Sims wrote that "Although every member of the ensemble gets a moment in the sun, Michael’s silent airport farewell to Pam [...] works best of all, a testament to the audience's deep understanding of these characters".[34] Daniel Feinberg named Carell's final episodes for The Office the 20th-best television episodes of 2011, although he only named Carell's final episodes under the banner.[35] He mainly praised Carell's performance for switching from laughs to sadness with nuance.[35] TV Guide named the episode the twelfth-best episode of 2011 and compared the episode to the humor of the series calling it "understated and pitch-perfect".[36] "Goodbye, Michael" was voted the highest-rated episode out of 24 from the season, according to an episode poll by the fansite, OfficeTally.[37] In another poll, the episode was voted the fourth highest-rated episode of the series, out of 139, receiving 403 votes.[38]
Greg Daniels, who wrote the script, received a nomination for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series at the 63rd Primetime Emmy Awards.[39] Steve Carell had also submitted this episode for consideration for his nomination for Outstanding Lead in a Comedy Series.[40] Daniels eventually lost to Jeffrey Richman and Steven Levitan of Modern Family for the episode "Caught in the Act", while Carell lost to Jim Parsons of The Big Bang Theory.[41] Office star Rainn Wilson expressed anger on Twitter at the academy for these decisions, saying "The world of TV should be ashamed of itself that Steve Carell never won an Emmy for Michael Gary Scott. Goodnight."[42] Former Office writer Michael Schur and director Paul Feig also criticized this choice with Schur calling it a "goddamn fucking embarrassment".[43] Daniels had also received a nomination for the Writers Guild of America Award for Television: Episodic Comedy, but once again lost to Richman and Levitan.[44][45]

"Todd Packer" is the eighteenth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 144th episode overall. It originally aired on NBC on February 24, 2011. The episode was written by Amelie Gillette and directed by Randall Einhorn.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company.  In this episode, traveling salesman Todd Packer (David Koechner) comes to Dunder Mifflin looking for a desk job in the office. However, the office is unsure if they want him to work there due to his previous behavior. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) eventually team up and develop a scheme that rids the office of Packer. Meanwhile, after dealing with computer problems, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) confronts Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) about getting a new computer.
The episode was the first entry in the series to be written by Gillette, who had written for the online entertainment newspaper and website The A.V. Club. The episode received mixed reviews from critics; while many did not enjoy the character of Todd Packer, others praised the temporary alliance between Jim and Dwight. "Todd Packer" was viewed by 6.121 million viewers and received a 3.2 rating among adults between the age of 18 and 49, making it the season's lowest-rated episode. Despite this, the episode was the highest-rated NBC series of the week that it aired.
Traveling salesman Todd Packer (David Koechner) comes to Dunder Mifflin looking for a desk job in the office. However, most of the office does not want him to work there due to his previous inappropriate behavior; Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) in particular is horrified at the idea. Holly Flax (Amy Ryan) gives him a job as a salesman, forcing Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) to leave his desk and move to the annex. Packer repeatedly offends everybody with his jokes, especially Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), although Kevin pretends to play along. Only Michael Scott (Steve Carell), Packer's longtime friend, is not offended by Todd. Jim and Dwight decide to prank Packer, but Dwight hates Jim's best idea: to make it so that his desk drawer only opens two inches. Jim instead pranks Dwight, by giving him an extremely long list of nonsensical pranks, and pulling the drawer prank on Dwight. Holly, who was at first excited to have Packer in the office per Michael's recommendations, discovers how insensitive Packer is and asks Michael to get him under control. Michael and Packer have coffee in the lobby, where Packer says he wants to be a better person. Michael gets Packer to apologize, but everyone can tell that the apologies are insincere. Having finally reached an understanding, Dwight and Jim scheme to get rid of Packer. They call him, pretending to be corporate offering him a job in Tallahassee, Florida, which Packer readily accepts. Michael overhears the call and goes to tell Packer that Dwight and Jim have tricked him. Before he has a chance, however, Packer insults Holly, and Michael decides to keep Dwight and Jim's scheme a secret and allow Packer to take the "job" in Florida. As Michael and Holly witness Packer drive away from the view in his office, Michael admits that Packer is "an ass" before they embrace.
When office administrator Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) gets a new computer for the receptionist's desk to replace the older model, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) wants a new computer, too. Pam points out that if she were to get a new computer for one sales rep, she would have to get one for every sales rep, as compared to reception, a one-person department. Unwilling to let it go, Andy convinces Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) to trade computers with him. Pam is angry when she finds out and forces him to switch the computers back. In addition to continuing to push for a new computer, Andy confronts Pam about "humiliating" him in front of the office. In order to make it up to him, she tells him that the only way he can get a new computer is if his breaks. To accomplish this, he accepts all cookies, intentionally opens pop-up ads, and places food in the disc drive. Giving up, Pam then buys Andy a new computer, but they scratch it up to make it not look brand new. When they pretend to argue about it in front of the office, Pam claims that she found it in the warehouse. Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) confronts Pam later regarding finding the computer in the warehouse. As he knows everything that is in the warehouse and where it is stored, he leverages Pam to give him more sick days. Pam gleefully tells the interviewers that she is now "full-on corrupt".
This episode was written by Amelie Gillette, her first writing credit of the series.[2] She was a writer for The A.V. Club before being hired for The Office.[3] The episode was directed by longtime series director Randall Einhorn, and was his second credit for the season after "The Sting".[2][4] The cold open, which featured Jim and Dwight arguing about canned foods, was actually filmed for the previous season and is featured in the blooper reel on the sixth season DVD and Blu-ray sets.[5]
The Season Seven DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. The cut scenes include a sequence of Erin being excited after receiving her new computer, Michael expressing his desire for Holly and Packer to become friends, Packer telling Holly that Scranton is his hometown, Kevin hinting that he would like some of Dwight's leftover pizza, Andy telling Pam about his high school "backseat" adventures, Michael and Holly arguing about Packer, and Jim trying to not let Dwight move back into his old desk.[6]
Packer pretends to mistake Holly for actress Jennifer Aniston. Dwight angrily throws out Holly's miniature zen gardens and remarks, "What do you grow in this, bullcrap?"[7] Packer calls Kevin, Holly, and Dwight, the "three muske-queers", a homophobic slur referencing the 1844 novel The Three Musketeers.[7] Dwight notes that, had Kevin grown up in sumo culture, he would be considered a "promising up-and-comer".[7] Holly makes a list of humorous individuals, ranging from most humorous to least: "Bill Cosby, Steve Martin, 'Charlie Bit My Finger,' Michael Scott […] Todd Packer".[7] When asked if he would like hot chocolate, Packer notes that the only "hot chocolate" he likes is Vivica A. Fox.[7] Jim mentions Justin Bieber, and Dwight says "Who is Justice Beaver?" This leads Jim to say sardonically, "A crime-fighting beaver". Following the episode's air date, the term "Justice Beaver" became a popular trend on Twitter, and led to a website in honor of the quote.[8][9] When prank-calling Packer, Dwight continuously makes references to The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Orlando, Florida.[7]
In its original American broadcast, "Todd Packer" was viewed by an estimated 6.121 million viewers and received a 3.2 rating/9% share.[10] This means that it was seen by 3.2% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked the lowest number of viewers for the series since the second season episode "Boys and Girls", which was viewed by 5.42 million viewers, as well as the lowest Nielsen rating for the series since the first season.[10][11] Despite this, the episode became the highest-rated NBC program for the original week it aired and also became the sixteenth most-watched show for the week of broadcast among adults aged 18–49.[12]
Myles McNutt of The A.V. Club, Gillette's former employer, awarded the episode a "B−" and noted that he did not like Todd Packer, nor the episodes where his character is intentionally supposed to be vile. He did, however, enjoy the fact that Packer's antics caused Jim and Dwight to unite in the face of a common enemy, a plot that McNutt said "had a scrappy feel to it". McNutt also called Kevin being "slowly broken by Packer's cruelty" an effective way to show how terrible Packer was to the morale of the office. He was, however, critical of Holly seeming unaware that "Michael may not be the best judge of whether or not someone is funny". At the end of his review, McNutt reminded readers that The A.V. Club specifically selected him as their new reviewer for the show because he did not know Gillette, thus avoiding a conflict of interest.[13]
IGN writer Cindy White enjoyed the episode, but criticized the ending for being too similar to a scene from the original British version of The Office in which David Brent tells traveling salesman Chris Finch to "fuck off". She spoke highly of Jim and Dwight's storyline, writing that "I wish their final ruse had been a bit more original, but it served the purpose of getting rid of Packer". She gave the episode a 7.5 out of 10 rating, denoting a "good" episode.[14]
Matt Richenthal of TV Fanatic awarded the episode four out of five stars and praised it for its temporary teaming up of Jim and Dwight.[15] Alan Sepinwall enjoyed the continued exploration of Michael's maturation, but felt that because Packer was so infrequently seen on the show, he was stuck as "the American version of Finchy" from the original British series, and as such, did not fit into the show's dynamics. Sepinwall was further critical of the main story, calling it "flat and uncomfortable". However, he enjoyed the later part of Pam and Andy's storyline, as well as Jim and Dwight teaming up to beat Packer.[16]


"The Search" is the fifteenth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 141st episode overall. Written by Brent Forrester and directed by Michael Spiller, the episode aired February 3, 2011 on NBC.
In the episode, Jim leaves Michael behind at a gas station to attend to CeCe. Michael then wanders around Scranton, leaving Dwight, Erin, and Holly to look for him. Meanwhile, Pam starts a caption contest in the office, with Gabe instituting rules that no one wants to follow.
Michael Scott continues to ask Holly Flax to get back together with him, but she continually refuses. Since she dated Michael when she worked in Scranton before and A. J. when she moved to Nashua, she feels like she does not want to fall into a pattern of dating co-workers. Michael and Jim Halpert then go out on a sales call. After landing the sale, an irritable Michael needs to stop to use the bathroom. 
While at a gas station, Jim gets a call from Pam Halpert's mother Helene, who was taking a feverish Cece to see the doctor when she accidentally locked the child in the car. Panicked, Jim attempts in vain to tell Michael through the door of the bathroom, then tells another gas station customer to tell Michael what happened and drives off, but the customer leaves after only waiting for a few seconds. Michael is left with no way of contacting the office, as his cell phone and wallet are with Jim and he does not remember the office's number, so he wanders around Scranton.
Jim, now with Cece, calls Pam and tells her Michael is at the gas station, so Holly, Erin Hannon, and Dwight Schrute head there. Finding Michael has left the gas station, Dwight suggests that Michael walked back towards the office, but Holly correctly guesses that he was enticed by the smell of the nearby bakery. After stopping at a grocery store to get some things for Pam, Dwight and Erin notice Holly at a cell phone kiosk outside, using a joke name to complete the forms in order to get a rubber stress ball. When the attendant mentions that someone else did the same thing earlier, Dwight and Erin recognize a fake name that is used by Michael. Noting Michael and Holly's similar interests and personalities, they conclude that Holly likely thinks the same way as Michael and can use this to find him. They follow her to a Chinese restaurant, where they find his picture on the wall along with others who have dined there without paying.
Dwight demands Holly tell him where Michael is, but when she suggests they find a high vantage point at which they can try to spot him, Dwight rejects this idea. While Dwight looks in a bowling alley, Holly heads up to the roof of a tall building to see if she can spot Michael from above. On the roof, she finds Michael who was similarly trying to spot the office from above. They both admit that they have missed each other and kiss.
Pam notices that several coworkers have written funny captions below her Sabre printer doodle on the refrigerator and gets the office to participate in a caption contest involving a cartoon of two dogs on a tropical island. Gabe Lewis is upset that the captions insult Sabre, and implements a set of rules, stating that they cannot insult Sabre or even use pop culture references. The office instead uses instant messenger to share quips in secret. Gabe catches them and prints out the quips, which insult Sabre and even attack Gabe personally, and reads them to the office thinking this will shame the authors. Instead, they all laugh at each other's quips.
This episode was written by consulting producer Brent Forrester, his first writing credit of the season and his ninth writing credit of the series. It was directed by Michael Spiller, his first directing credit for The Office. This was the third consecutive episode in which John Krasinski has a limited role in the episode as Jim, due to the filming of Big Miracle in Alaska.[1]
In its original American broadcast on February 3, 2011, "The Search" was viewed by an estimated 7.29 million viewers and received a 3.7 rating/9% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, decreasing in viewers from the previous episode.[2]


"Pilot" (alternatively titled "The Office: An American Workplace") is the first episode of the first season of the American comedy television series The Office. The episode premiered in the United States on NBC on March 24, 2005. The episode's teleplay was adapted by Greg Daniels from the original script of the first episode of the British version written by Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant. "Pilot" was directed by Ken Kwapis.
In this episode, a documentary crew arrives at the Scranton, Pennsylvania offices of Dunder Mifflin to observe the employees and learn about modern management. Manager Michael Scott (Steve Carell) tries to paint a happy picture in the face of potential downsizing from corporate. The office also gets new employee Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) as a temporary worker, while Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) pranks antagonist Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson).
"Pilot" debuted The Office as a mid-season replacement for the 2004–05 season. The episode was primarily adapted from the first episode of the British series, although it was partially re-scripted in an attempt to "Americanize" the new show. Although the episode was a ratings success, receiving a 5.0/13 in the Nielsen ratings among people aged 18–49, and garnering 11.2 million viewers overall, the episode received mixed reviews, with many critics criticizing it as a complete copy of the original.
The episode introduces Michael Scott (Steve Carell), the regional manager at the Scranton branch of Dunder Mifflin, a distribution company dealing in paper products that is currently under threat of facing downsizing. The news is delivered to him by the Vice President of Northeast Sales, Jan Levinson-Gould (Melora Hardin), who, along with the other employees, can barely tolerate Michael's foolish antics.
Also introduced are a few of the other workers in the office, including Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), a socially awkward salesman and part-time, volunteer sheriff's deputy; Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), another salesman who enjoys playing pranks on Dwight; Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), the receptionist on whom Jim harbors an obvious crush; and Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), a temporary worker.
The episode debuted the series as a mid-season replacement for the 2004–05 season. The pilot is a direct adaptation of the first episode of the British version.[2] Daniels had decided to go through this route because "completely starting from scratch would be a very risky thing to do" due to the show being an adaptation.[2] Although the episode was primarily adapted from the first episode of the British series, it was partially re-scripted in an attempt to "Americanize" it.[3][4] Jokes such as Dwight's stapler being put in Jell-O by Jim were transferred verbatim from the original series, while others were only slightly changed.  Although later reshot, a scene in which Jim tapes pencils to his desk was originally filmed as a parallel to a scene in the British version, in which Tim Canterbury stacks up cardboard boxes in front of Gareth Keenan to restrict Keenan's view of Canterbury.[5] "Pilot" was filmed almost six months prior to beginning of filming on the second episode of the season, "Diversity Day".[6] The Office used no laugh tracks in the "Pilot", wanting its "deadpan" and "absurd" humor to fully come across.[7] Production for this episode took place on February 18, 2004.[8]
NBC programmer Kevin Reilly originally suggested Paul Giamatti to producer Ben Silverman for the role of Michael Scott, but the actor declined. Martin Short, Hank Azaria and Bob Odenkirk were also reported to be interested.[9] In January 2004, Variety reported Steve Carell, of the popular Comedy Central program The Daily Show with Jon Stewart, was in talks to play the role. At the time, he was already committed to another NBC mid-season replacement comedy, Come to Papa, but the series was quickly canceled, leaving him fully committed to The Office.[10] Carell later stated he had only seen about half of the original pilot episode of the British series before he auditioned. He did not continue watching for fear that he would start copying Gervais' characterizations.[11] Rainn Wilson, who was cast as the power-hungry sycophant Dwight Schrute, watched every episode of the series before he auditioned. Wilson had originally auditioned for Michael, a performance he described as a "terrible Ricky Gervais impersonation"; however, the casting directors liked his audition as Dwight much more and hired him for the role.[12]
John Krasinski and Jenna Fischer were virtual unknowns before being cast in their respective roles as Jim and Pam, the central love interests. Krasinski had attended school with, and was a friend of B. J. Novak. Krasinski recalled accidentally insulting Greg Daniels while waiting to audition for the series, telling him, "I hope [the show's developers] don't screw this up." Daniels then introduced himself and told Krasinski who he was.[13] Fischer prepared for her audition by looking as boring as possible, creating the original Pam hairstyle.[14] In an interview on NPR's Fresh Air, Fischer recalled the last stages of the audition process for Pam and Jim, with the producers partnering the different potential Pams and Jims (four of each) together to gauge their chemistry. When Fischer finished her scene with Krasinski, he told her that she was his favorite Pam, to which she reciprocated that he was her favorite Jim.[15] Many actors originally filmed as extras in this episode would go on to become supporting cast members in later episodes, and the two women wearing blue sweaters towards the back of the room at the staff meeting scene were actual accountants that worked on the production staff.[5]
"Pilot" premiered on NBC on March 24, 2005.[16] The episode received a 5.0/13 in the Nielsen ratings among people aged 18–49, meaning that 5.0 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds viewed the episode.[17] The episode garnered 11.2 million viewers overall.[18] "Pilot" ranked as the number one show in the key 18–49 demographic, outperforming all five of its network competitors.[17] In addition, the episode ranked as the third most-watched show for that evening.[19] With over 11 million views, it is the second most watched episode of the series, after the fifth season episode "Stress Relief," which attracted 22.9 million viewers.[20]
"Pilot" received mixed reviews after its premiere.[21]  Many sources deemed it another failed American reincarnation of a British show.  A reviewer from the Deseret Morning News said, "Maybe, after The Office dies a quick death on NBC, the network will decide that trying to Americanize British TV comedies isn't such a great idea."[22] The New York Daily News said the show was "neither daring nor funny", adding that "NBC's version is so diluted there's little left but muddy water".[23]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club gave the episode a C+ and felt that it was a lackluster copy of the original. He noted that "the fatal flaw of this episode—though it could've been a proviso in the licensing agreement signed by Gervais and Merchant—involves dropping reminders of the U.K. Office's pilot left and right", and that "this episode pales in comparison" to the original British version. However, Adams complimented the character of Pam, noting that "she's also the embodiment of a certain grounded, de-glamorized look and tone these early episodes sold well—before subsequent seasons dropped them along with the most obvious concessions to the 'workplace documentary' conceit."[24]
Although many perceived the first episode to have been a failure, some outlets praised the new show.  While berating the show for coming across "slowly and painfully", the Boston Globe said that "it is funny".[25]  In relation to past failed shows adapted from British shows, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette stated "Despite botching the American remake of the Britcom Coupling, NBC makes a pretty good effort in its version of The Office in duplicating the original's ethos while injecting it with an American sensibility."[26]


"Drug Testing" is the twentieth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the twenty-sixth episode overall.  It was written by Jennifer Celotta and directed by Greg Daniels, who is also an executive producer, and the series' show runner. It first aired in the United States on April 27, 2006 on NBC. The episode guest stars Hugh Dane as Hank the security guard.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company.  In the episode, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) finds pieces of a joint in the parking lot, and begins an investigation to find the owner. Michael Scott (Steve Carell), worrying that he may not pass a drug test, pressures Dwight for a cup of clean urine to pass the drug test. Failing to find the culprit and guilty over providing the urine to Michael, Dwight resigns as a volunteer sheriff. Later, Michael assigns Dwight the title of "Honorary Security Adviser".
Several of the scenes were based on the actors' real-life talents, such as Krasinski's ability to impersonate people. The episode was also the final episode of the season to be filmed, though not the last to air. "Drug Testing" was watched by 7.8 million viewers and received mostly positive reviews from critics, although one review did criticize the plot for not quite coming together.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) finds half of a joint in the parking lot of the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the Dunder Mifflin Paper Company, and investigates its source in his capacity as volunteer sheriff deputy. When Dwight sets up urine testing, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) worries that a "clove cigarette" he smoked at an Alicia Keys concert will show up. He conducts an anti-drug meeting for the office in an attempt to cast suspicion off himself and excuse himself from the drug test. When Dwight informs Michael that he is not exempt, he pressures Dwight for a cup of his "clean" urine, which he uses to pass the drug test. Deeming this a violation of his oath as sheriff deputy, Dwight turns in his badge. Michael feels guilty, so he makes Dwight an "Honorary Security Advisor" for Dunder Mifflin Scranton.
When Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) say the same thing simultaneously, Pam calls "jinx", meaning Jim cannot talk until he buys her a Coke. The vending machine is sold out, and Pam insists that by the rules Jim must remain silent. Jim holds up his end of the jinx, even when Pam torments him by encouraging Kelly to continue with a one-sided conversation with Jim. When Pam teasingly says to Jim "you can tell me anything", he gives her a yearning look, making her uncomfortable. Pam buys Jim his Coke, which he buys from her so she can talk to him again.
In a talking head interview, Jim discusses Dwight's sacrifice for Michael. He concludes, "I just don't get it. What does he get out of that relationship?" A cut-away emphasizes his own relationship with Pam.
"Drug Testing" was written by Jennifer Celotta and directed by show runner and executive producer Greg Daniels.[2] Fischer noted that the subplot featuring Jim unable to talk was important because "Pam and Jim can say a lot to one another without any words at all", a reference to the "27 seconds of silence" the two shared in the earlier episode "Booze Cruise".[2] Michael has a bandage around his finger in this episode because Steve Carell hurt his finger during the week and was unable to remove his wedding ring due to the swelling. Instead of cutting off his ring, the crew simply wrapped a bandage around it.[3]
Several of the scenes were based on the actor's real-life talents as well as improvised. When Michael tells Pam to "write this down", Jenna Fischer's response to the camera was improvised. "I thought it was funny that I didn't have a pad of paper but Michael was telling me to take notes," she explained in her MySpace blog, "so I just looked to the camera and showed my lack of pen and paper."[4] Jim's impression of Stanley in this episode was inspired by John Krasinski's actual talent of doing impressions on the set.[2]
This was the final episode of the season to be filmed, though not the last to air. According to Jenna Fischer, everybody on the set was excited in a manner that she likened to students on the last day of school. The giddiness particularly shows in Fischer's performance: Pam skips after Jim into the break room, she bounces on her toes at the end of the "fake crying" talking head, and she taps the soda can three times to get Jim to release the jinx.[5]
The Season Two DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Jim doing impressions of Kevin and Angela for Pam, Dwight noting that he is so determined to find the culprit that he is prepared to pray "to Thor himself", Toby saying that he does not think Michael is taking drugs, Jim secretly doing an impression of Dwight right in front of him, Dwight talking about Jim and concluding that, "If that were my life, I'd do drugs", Pam toying with Dwight by admitting that she "was a teensy bit high... in the parking lot at the Quick and Easy", Meredith coming to Jim because Pam told her he had something to tell her. Jim is under the jinx and says nothing, Kelly putting a customer on hold when she is called by Dwight and forgetting to return, Dwight taking notes during the conference, Pam showing the camera the flyer that Michael made up for the conference, and Lee and Gino, the workers at Vance Refrigeration, discarding a joint in the parking lot.[6]
Michael notes that he had gotten high at an Alicia Keys concert. During Michael's anti-drug meeting, he misidentifies hookah as an illegal drug; Toby points out the fact that it is merely a pipe. Dwight notes that he'll have to bring in his bō staff, a long staff weapon used in Okinawa and feudal Japan, to protect the office. Jim later notes that Dwight was dressed like a member of the disco group the Village People.[7]
"Drug Testing" originally aired on NBC in the United States on April 26, 2006.[8] "Drug Testing" received 3.9/10 in the ages 18–49 demographic in the Nielsen ratings. This means that 3.9 percent of all households with an 18- to 49-year-old living in it watched the episode, and ten percent had their television tuned to the channel at any point. "Drug Testing" was watched by 7.8 million viewers.[9]
"Drug Testing" was generally well received by critics. Lindsey Thomas of Rolling Stone named Dwight interrogating the workers in the Office after finding the joint in the parking lot one of the top twenty-five scenes from the show, ranking it at number fifteen.[10] Alan Sepinwall of The Seattle Times wrote that "'Drug Testing' (in which Rainn Wilson's supercilious Dwight paraded around the office wearing a Smokey Bear hat and carrying a coffee cup filled with undrinkable liquid)" allowed the show to finally make "The Leap."[11] Brendan Babish of DVD Verdict was pleased with the entry and awarded it an "A−".[12] He was pleased with the episode's emphasis on Dwight and called it "a far better showcase for Dwight's many charms than 'Dwight's Speech'."[12] M. Giant of Television Without Pity awarded the episode an "A".[7] Not all reviews were so glowing. Michael Sciannamea of AOL TV was more critical of the episode and wrote that he "didn't think this episode was so hot", calling the premise "a good idea that didn't really take off".[13] He also disliked Jim and Pam's subplot and called it "rather childish" and wrote that it "didn't seem to go anywhere".[13]


"Money" is the seventh and eighth episode of the fourth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's sixtieth and sixty-first episode overall. It first aired on October 18, 2007,[1] on NBC, and was the last of four consecutive hour-long episodes that opened the fourth season.  The episode was written and directed by Paul Lieberstein, who also acts on the show as Human Resources Representative Toby Flenderson. "Money" marked Lieberstein's directorial debut.[1]
In the episode, Jan, now living with Michael, forces costly changes in Michael's life and he starts to worry about his financial situation. To remedy the problem, Michael leaves work early for a late night job as a telemarketer until 1 a.m. When Ryan finds out, he forces Michael to quit, who then fears that there is no way in which he can support Jan and himself. He hops a train to run away, but Jan meets him and tells him that they can work together to find a way to live. Meanwhile, Dwight pines over Angela, who is later asked out by Andy. After a pep-talk by Jim, Dwight returns as his normal annoying self, to Jim's pleasure. Pam and Jim visit Dwight's family farm, which he has fashioned into a bed and breakfast.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) discuss her plans to renovate their condo. Not only are the plans costly, but Jan has forced several other changes at Michael's expense, such as trading in both cars to buy her a Porsche Boxster.  Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) discover that Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) is running Schrute Farm as an "agritourism" bed and breakfast. They spend the night there, taking part in table-making demonstrations, beet wine-making, distributing manure and having Dwight read an excerpt from Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows to them.[2] That night, however, after a series of strange noises, Jim finds Dwight moaning in depression over Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), while Pam discovers Dwight's Amish cousin Mose (Michael Schur) outside using an outhouse, to which she reacts "What century is this?"
Michael begins leaving the office early, refusing to explain himself to his employees and lying to Jan of his whereabouts. In reality, Michael has been combating heavy debt by working as a telemarketer until 1 a.m. At the office the next day, Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) arrives to find a tired Michael who is unprepared for a presentation due to his moonlighting, and orders Michael to quit his night job or be fired from Dunder Mifflin. At the same time, Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) flaunts the fact that she is now dating Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) in an attempt to make Ryan jealous. They get into a fight 
when Darryl chooses to spend time with his daughter instead of going out with Kelly. After quitting his telemarketing job, Michael desperately attempts to come up with money.
Kelly and Darryl's continuing relationship proves to be dysfunctional, as she cannot comprehend his candor, and he finds her to be attractive yet "crazy." Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) advises Michael to declare bankruptcy, which Michael does literally by walking into the office and shouting "I declare bankruptcy!", thinking this was all he needed to do. Upon reviewing Michael's financial situation, Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) finds that Michael spends a large amount on useless items like magic kits and bass fishing equipment.
Meanwhile, Jim and Pam feel sorry for Dwight and attempt to cheer him up by posting a positive review of his bed & breakfast on TripAdvisor.com, which pleases him.  However, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) gains Angela's approval to ask her out on a date by giving her the cat (named Garbage) that Dwight had tried to give Angela earlier, sending Dwight spiraling into crushing depression. Dwight retreats to the stairwell to moan. Jim joins him and recounts his days pining for Pam and how miserable it made him feel, saying he would not wish it on his worst enemy, Dwight included, to experience it, and Dwight realizes that he is not without friends. Having re-opened his old memories, Jim re-enters the office, goes right to Pam and kisses her passionately, and indirectly confesses in an interview that he loves her. Jim and Pam are quietly pleased when Dwight returns to his desk along with his annoying and overbearing personality.
Jan learns of Michael's dismal finances by phone, and immediately harangues Michael about being irresponsible.  He panics and attempts to hop a nearby train.  However, the train is slowing down and comes to a complete halt, upon which he is seen sitting on the train singing to himself. Jan speeds to the office and Oscar tells her in which direction Michael ran. She then runs to the train yard. She tells him that she will stand by him as he did when she was fired. Eventually, they leave the train yard hand in hand.
The episode was both written and directed by Paul Lieberstein, who also plays the part of Toby Flenderson on the show.[1] In the episode, Jim refers to a TripAdvisor page for Dwight's bed and breakfast. This can be found by searching for Schrute Farms.[3] Jim and Pam ("JandP2") post a review, which can be seen on the actual reviews page. It reads: "The architecture reminds one of a quaint Tuscan beet farm, and the natural aroma of the beets drifts into the bedrooms and makes you dream of simpler times. You will never want to leave your room. The informative lecture will satisfy all your beet curiosity, and the dawn goose walk will tug at your heart strings. Table making never seemed so possible. Great story to tell your friends. Plenty of parking! The staff’s attention to detail and devotion to cleanliness was limitless. From their enthusiastic welcome to the last wave good-bye, Schrute Farms delivers."[3]
The episode was positively reviewed, with many reviewers praising the storylines of its characters and the performances of Krasinski and Wilson, although some reviewers complained about the episode's length. A Buzzsugar.com review stated that "there was something off about this week's episode. It's never really a good thing when I'm checking the clock and feeling antsy at the 20-minute mark of an hour-long episode."[4] An IGN review said "while there's some really funny moments in this episode, overall I really started to feel that hour running time. Of course, as always, that doesn't make this a bad episode, just not one of their best."[5]
The episode's length was not a problem for the staff and readers of IGN, with the former giving it an 8 out of 10 rating, and the latter giving it an average rating of 8.4.[5]  "Money" received a 4.9 Nielsen Rating and a 7% share. The episode was watched by 8.50 million viewers and achieved a 4.4/11 in the adults 18–49 demographic.[6]
For his work as director on the episode Paul Lieberstein received an Emmy nomination for Outstanding Directing for a Comedy. This made it the second fourth-season episode to receive the nomination, with the other being the season finale "Goodbye, Toby".[7]


"Fundraiser" is the twenty-second episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 174th episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on April 26, 2012. "Fundraiser" was written by Owen Ellickson and directed by David Rogers. The episode guest stars Andy Buckley and Jack Coleman.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) crashes a fundraiser and ends up adopting twelve dogs. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) learns that an auction winner loses money. Nellie (Catherine Tate) learns how to eat a taco.
"Fundraiser" received mixed reviews from critics. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Fundraiser" was viewed by an estimated 4.17 million viewers and received a 2.1 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, making it the lowest-rated season eight episode of The Office to air. The episode ranked third in its timeslot and was also the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Angela Lipton's (Angela Kinsey) husband Robert (Jack Coleman) throws a silent auction fundraiser for local animal rights activists and Robert California (James Spader) buys two tables to seat everyone in the office. Newly fired Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) arrives and tries to get into an argument with Robert, telling him about a rock opera he has written with the hero based on Andy and the villain being a heartless character who wants to destroy all music named Thomas Oregon (with the name being a thinly-veiled reference to Robert California), who is "humanized" when he pees himself at the end. Andy runs into David Wallace (Andy Buckley), former CFO of Dunder Mifflin, and begins plotting his return to Dunder Mifflin. Andy interrupts Robert's speech introducing the senator by volunteering to adopt the twelve dogs brought by the local animal society. Afterwards, members of the office ask if he is having a breakdown, and, at Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner)'s urging, Andy sadly agrees that he is.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) attends without understanding how silent auctions work: he believes that the purpose of the function is to guess correctly the market price of the objects. By the end of the night, Dwight has put exorbitant amounts on the items and ends up accidentally donating over $34,000. He flees when he discovers his mistake, giving a bizarre speech on the value of animals before doing so. Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) tries to talk with Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) by complaining about the food. She suggests they get a taco at her expense, offering thirty dollars to Darryl to go out and buy some. When she does, she shovels the ingredients in her mouth, not eating the shell. Darryl realizes she has no idea what a taco is, but appreciates that "she's trying" to socialize with her employees.
Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) talks briefly to Senator Lipton about animal rights, and Lipton (who Oscar suspects is gay) gives Oscar his private cell phone number, asking Oscar to call him in the evening to discuss issues further. Oscar tells Pam (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) that the Senator was hitting on him. Jim says Lipton was likely just schmoozing a voter, talks to Lipton himself, and also gets his number. Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) later gets Lipton's number as well, resulting in Oscar thinking that the senator may not have been hitting on him. When Oscar is leaving, Lipton shakes his hand and caresses Oscar's arm for long enough that Oscar once again believes Lipton was pursuing him.
"Fundraiser" was written by Owen Ellickson and directed by David Rogers.[2] The episode features the return of the character David Wallace (Andy Buckley), former CFO of Dunder Mifflin.[3]  Wallace, who is also attending the fundraiser, reveals to Andy that after his firing, he sold his toy-vacuum invention "Suck It" to the military for $20 million.[2]
The cold opening references several notable bands and musicians: the scene consists of Ryan complaining because he recently heard—erroneously—that musician Smokey Robinson died.[4] Initially, Ryan refers to him as only "Smokey", which causes Pam to believe he is talking about Smokey the Bear. However, Ryan, on the bequest of Pam, is only able to name one song that Robinson had sung, "The Tracks of My Tears".[2] Pam, however, is later able to remember that he sang "Tears of a Clown", and Jim references "I Second That Emotion".[2][4] After Jim proves that Robinson is both still alive and playing at a local venue, Ryan tells him that he will be unable to attend because the opening band is Paul Anka, and that is "not what Smokey would have… does want!"[2] During his pontificating rant, Ryan mentions that popular music is not all about "Jason Mraz and The Beatles", which shocks Dwight. Dwight lists off "Eleanor Rigby" and "Paperback Writer" and asks Ryan if he truly does not like those songs.[2]
"Fundraiser" originally aired on NBC in the United States on April 26, 2012.[1] The episode was viewed by an estimated 4.17 million viewers and received a 2.1 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[5] This means that it was seen by 2.1% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[5] The episode finished third in its time slot, being beaten by Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.2 rating/8% share and the CBS drama Person of Interest which received a 2.4 rating/6% share in the 18–49 demographic.[5] The episode beat the Fox series Touch and The CW drama series The Secret Circle.[5] Despite this, "Fundraiser" was the highest-rated NBC television episode of the night.[5] The episode was the 25th most watched episode in the 18–49 demographic for the week ending April 29.[6]
The episode received mixed reviews from critics, with critiques ranging from largely positive to very negative. Myles McNutt from The A.V. Club gave the episode a slightly positive review and gave it a B− rating. He wrote, "The Office is far from a profound show when it just throws its characters in a room and observes their behavior, but there’s a certain charm to it." McNutt noted that, despite feeling that the episode's description of "Darryl teaches Nellie how to eat a taco" was a poor move on NBC's part, he thought they "could have spent more time with Nellie learning how to eat a taco."[7] Craig McQuinn from The Faster Times wrote positively of the episode, noting, "For the first time in forever this is an episode of The Office that actually has a lot going on. Whether the stuff that’s happening is actually meaningful or significant in any way is up for debate, but I actually enjoyed most of this episode."[8]
Not all reviews were positive. Dan Forcella from TV Fanatics gave the episode a mixed review and awarded it two-and-a-half stars out of five. Forcella noted "It has been four episodes now since the super team returned from Florida, and The Office still hasn't found its footing back in Scranton", and he called the outing "another lackluster effort".[9]  A review from CliqueClack was largely critical of the episode, calling it "worse than usual" and noting that the show had finally hit "rock bottom".[3] WhatCulture! reviewer Joseph Kratzer felt that the episode's setting—outside of the office building—was detrimental to the episode. He wrote, "The thing is, I in no way felt like any of what occurred in 'Fundraiser' needed to take place outside the Scranton branch and that’s really why a sitcom should move locations for an episode – because the story couldn't function without it. But this time it just felt like a cheap way to liven up a clearly very boring, uninspired, weak episode of television."[10] Screen Crave wrote, "Those viewers of The Office that have scolded the show throughout the season for its varying degrees of sucking, are not likely to be changing their thinking after watching the latest episode."[11]
However, many reviews were happy about the return of Andy Buckley, who portrayed David Wallace.[11][10] A review from TV Equals noted that "I’m not totally convinced that David Wallace’s story is as simple as the one he tells, but maybe that’s just because I’d love any excuse for him to work his way back into the story lines for The Office."[12] Michael Tedder from Vulture called Wallace's character "always-welcome".[13]

"The Cover-Up" is the twenty-fourth episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office. It aired on May 6, 2010 on NBC in the United States.
In the episode, Michael suspects Donna is cheating on him, and he pays Dwight $50 plus expenses to investigate. Meanwhile, Darryl pranks Andy into believing he has uncovered a company conspiracy.
The episode was written by Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky, their third writing credit of the season after "The Lover" and "Scott's Tots." It was directed by Rainn Wilson, who also portrays Dwight Schrute on the show, marking his television directorial debut.[1]
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is in good spirits due to his wildly successful relationship with Donna (Amy Pietz). He calls an office meeting solely to get suggestions for their next date, but the meeting participants, particularly Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) and Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling), convince him that she might be cheating on him. Worried, Michael hires Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) to tail her to see if she spends time with anyone else. Dwight follows Donna to her gym and attempts to seduce her. Donna rebukes him and calls security on him, whereby he openly admits he was sent there by Michael to keep tabs on her. An enraged Donna comes to the office to talk to Michael about the whole situation, and the two forgive each other and reconcile by planning a private vacation together.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) receives a call from a concerned client that a Sabre printer caught fire during a routine operation. He becomes frustrated when Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) fails to take his client's complaint seriously. Capitalizing on his fears, Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) pranks Andy into believing he has uncovered a conspiracy as revenge for Andy pinning one of his mistakes on the warehouse a few years prior. He pays Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) to threaten him, and further convinces Andy that the conspirators intend to kill him. Gabe eventually tells Andy that he consulted corporate, who confirmed that only 12 out of 400,000 printers have caught fire, and gives Andy a $5 gift card as thanks for bringing the matter to their attention. This assuages Andy's suspicions, but Darryl is still able to convince him that he needs to go public with proof that the printers are faulty. He films Andy testing the printer in normal use. Though Darryl intends to use the video to further embarrass Andy, the printer indeed catches fire and explodes. This confirms Andy's suspicions, and scares Darryl straight.
While Donna and Michael are planning their trip, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) becomes suspicious when she notices Donna wearing heart-shaped jewelry that Michael did not buy for her. She snoops around on Facebook, and finds recent pictures of Donna hugging and kissing another man. Pam shows Michael the pictures, and he confronts Donna with the evidence. Donna admits to cheating and reveals that it is Michael who is the "other guy"; the photos are of her and her husband.
The episode was written by Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky, their third writing credit of the season after "The Lover" and "Scott's Tots." It was directed by Rainn Wilson, who also portrays Dwight Schrute on the show, marking his television directorial debut.[1] He is the fourth actor of the series to make a directorial debut this season after B. J. Novak, John Krasinski, and Mindy Kaling. Cast members Steve Carell and Paul Lieberstein also directed episodes this season, though they had previously directed for the series. This episode was dedicated to the memory of Larry Einhorn, whose son, Randall Einhorn, had directed 11 previous episodes of the series, served as this episode's consultant and cinematographer, and went on to direct other episodes including the next episode.
In its original American broadcast, "The Cover-Up" was watched by 6.84 million viewers with a 3.5 rating and a 10 share in the 18–49 demographic.[2]
Cindy White of IGN gave the episode an 8.0/10, saying it was "Impressive" and "While 'The Cover-Up' did manage to move along two story threads leading up to the end of the season, it wasn't really a standout episode, especially in contrast to last week's. There weren't as many quotable lines or memorable moments as I usually expect from The Office.”[3] Leonard Pierce of The A.V. Club gave the episode an A−, writing "It's an extremely adept episode, skillfully blending its themes with a solid structure and tons of good jokes in a way that this season has rarely achieved", but said the episode wasn't as good as the other NBC Comedy Night Done Right shows, Community and Parks and Recreation.[4] Darren Franich of Entertainment Weekly said "The episode was called 'The Cover-Up,' and even if it didn’t quite follow through on the promise of that opening scene, it was a good little ditty."[5] James Poniewozik of Time gave the episode a positive review writing "Credit to the show for setting that up (Michael realizing he is a mistress), though it eluded me and, I suppose, everyone else not versed in the secret signals of heart-shaped jewelry.[6]
Steve Carell submitted this episode for Emmy voting when he was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series.


"Welcome Party" is the twentieth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 172nd episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on April 12, 2012. "Welcome Party" was written by Steve Hely and directed by series regular Ed Helms, who portrays Andy Bernard.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Robert California (James Spader) forces the office to prepare a welcome party for Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate), but the party planners seek to sabotage it. Meanwhile, Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) helps Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) break up with his girlfriend, Jessica.
"Welcome Party" was received differently by many critics, resulting in mixed reviews, with multiple critics feeling that the episode never lived up to its potential. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Welcome Party" was viewed by an estimated 4.39 million viewers and received a 2.2 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode ranked fourth in its timeslot and was also the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Robert California  (James Spader) forces the office to throw a welcome party for Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate), but the Party Planning Committee works on ways to sabotage it. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) are sent to Nellie's apartment to help her move in. When Dwight sarcastically suggests bringing in a magician to move her furniture magically, Nellie quickly admits her disdain for stage magicians, prompting Jim to tell Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) about hiring a magician for Nellie's party. Jim and Dwight find a shoe box with a note to Nellie from herself saying not to open it. Inside, they find photos of her with another man and deduce him to be an ex-boyfriend. When Nellie finds them with the photos, she explains that she lost everything when they broke up. One of the photos shows him as a stage magician, which they realize is the root of her distaste of magicians. Jim calls Pam back and asks her to reconsider throwing the bad party. Pam tries to convince the other employees to little or no avail.
At the party, the employees vent their hatred of Nellie onto Pam to avoid admitting the truth, making Pam uncomfortable. The magician that was hired (Brett Gelman) arrives, much to Nellie's dismay. Jim and Pam, out of solidarity to Nellie, sabotage the magician's tricks until he reaches breaking point, angrily yelling at everyone, and Dwight kicks him out. Nellie could see what Jim and Pam were doing and smiles gratefully. Nellie and Robert commend the employees for throwing a good party, but Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) complains that the carrot cake has actual vegetables in it, which Pam made as a prank. When Jim and Pam leave for the day, Pam asks Hank Tate (Hugh Dane) why he let the magician into the elevator when he was asked not to. Hank, busy reading a magazine, claims not to have noticed him, stating that as a magician he could have slipped by.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) and Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) decide not to get together officially until he breaks up with Jessica (Eleanor Seigler). On their way back to Scranton, they stop at Jessica's family's log cabin, where they encounter a bunch of Jessica's friends having a bachelorette party for her sister, and have been drinking extensively. Uncomfortable, Andy and Erin decide to bail, but Jessica returns from her morning run. After staying a while, Andy asks Jessica into the kitchen where she deduces that he is breaking up with her. Erin is surprised however when Jessica said that Andy told her he did not think Erin was relationship material. Andy does not deny saying that, instead opting to claim that he is gay and leaves awkwardly with Erin. In the car, Andy says he made those comments about Erin because he was with Jessica before Erin accepts it and sleeps. Andy decides to head back to the cabin to tell Jessica and her party that he broke up with her because he wanted to be with Erin and that she is relationship material, while Erin stands nearby. Furious, Jessica and her party chase Andy and Erin back to the car. Erin passionately kisses Andy inside the car while the party throws things at their vehicle, prompting a quick getaway.
"Welcome Party" was written by Steve Hely, his second writing credit for the season after "Trivia".[2] The episode was directed by series regular Ed Helms, who portrays Andy Bernard. This marked his second director's credit for both the series and season, after "Christmas Wishes".[3]
The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Jim trying to stall Nellie, Robert California asking the party planning committee how great the party will be, Nellie checking out her new neighbors and asking her neighbor if he is an abortion care provider, in order to make sure her building will not be the target of a fire-bombing, and the party planning committee trying to think of catty ways to make Nellie angry.[4]
"Welcome Party" originally aired on NBC in the United States on April 12, 2012.[1] The episode was viewed by an estimated 4.39 million viewers and received a 2.2 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[5] This means that it was seen by 2.2% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a slight drop in the ratings from the previous episode, "Get the Girl".[6] "Welcome Party" was ranked as the lowest-rated episode of the series in the 18–49 demographic, beating the first-season finale, "Hot Girl", "Tallahassee" and "Get the Girl".[6][7][8] The episode finished fourth in its time slot, only beating The CW drama series, Supernatural.[5] The episode was defeated by the Fox drama series Touch, ABC medical drama Grey's Anatomy and a rerun of the CBS sitcom, The Big Bang Theory.[5]
"Welcome Party" received mixed reviews from critics. The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt wrote that while the series had two goals to perform by the end of the episode—to turn Nellie into a relatable character and break Andy and Jessica up—he felt that both plots failed in execution.[9] He wrote that because the audience knew nothing about Jessica and that he had "already given up on" Nellie as a character, the episode ultimately became an "'unfunny' experience".[9] He ultimately gave the episode a C.[9] Cindy White of IGN compared the writer's attempt to humanize Nellie to the previous seasons, specifically "The Dundies" when the writers humanized Michael and wrote that she hoped the writers would continue to do this with Nellie.[10] She also went on to praise the interaction between Jim and Pam, saying "Their ability ... to communicate volumes with a few words or merely a glance demonstrates why their chemistry has been so difficult to replicate with other couples."[10] Despite her mainly positive review, she criticized the Andy and Erin subplot because she neither cared about Jessica nor Andy and Erin's relationship and called the whole subplot "a waste of time".[10] She ultimately gave the episode a 7.5/10, calling it "Good".[10] Writing for New York, Lucy Teitler unfavorably compared the Andy-Erin plotline to Jim and Pam's from the early seasons of the series, writing that the romance was not able to "take off, because Erin has no real agency" and that the scene where Andy returned to the bachelorette party felt too superficial to reach its potential of becoming a "classic" Office scene.[11]
The cold open received particularly positive reviews from critics.[9] Myles McNutt called it "clever" and noted that even he had forgotten whether Stanley had a mustache.[9] Lucy Teitler positively compared it to Guys and Dolls.[11] Cindy White considered a "great ensemble bit" and that it showed promise for the episode, although it did not reach that promise.[10]


"Moroccan Christmas" is the eleventh episode of the fifth season of the television series The Office and the show's eighty-third episode overall. The episode aired in the United States on December 11, 2008, on NBC.
It is the third Christmas-themed episode of The Office and the first in two years, as 2007's planned edition was abandoned due to the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike.
In this episode, Phyllis throws a Moroccan-themed Christmas party as head of the Party Planning Committee, infuriating former head Angela. The party takes a dark turn when Meredith gets drunk and accidentally sets her hair on fire. Meanwhile, Dwight  makes money by taking advantage of the latest toy craze, a Princess Unicorn doll.
Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) throws a Moroccan-themed Christmas party, her first Christmas party as head of the Party Planning Committee. Alcohol is served at the party, of which Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) takes full advantage—she gets so intoxicated that she accidentally sets her hair on fire while she is dancing. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) puts out the fire with an extinguisher and the party comes to a halt. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) then stages an intervention by gathering everyone in a circle to discuss how Meredith's alcoholism affects them. When Meredith continues to deny her alcoholism, the rest of the office find it best to go back to the party. Michael then talks with Meredith in his office before leaving the building. Meredith is told by Michael that they are going to a bar, but he actually takes her to a rehabilitation center. When Meredith sees this, she tries to escape, but Michael grabs her and drags her in. However, Michael learns that the staff will not check anyone in against their will, so he and Meredith leave and drive back to the office.
Dwight has been performing research to determine what will be the most popular toy of the current Christmas season: a doll named "Princess Unicorn".[2] Dwight has bought every doll he could find in the local toy stores and explains he is going to sell the dolls to desperate parents for an enormous profit, retaliating to the fact that those parents waited until the last minute to buy their kids presents. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) is skeptical that people would pay a high price for a doll, but he watches numerous customers come in throughout the day to purchase a doll from Dwight, all paying his asking price of $200. Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) wants to buy a doll for his daughter, Sasha, so he can be the hero this Christmas, which would irritate his ex-wife. When he goes to Dwight to purchase one, he finds that Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) has already purchased the last one. Toby begs Darryl to the verge of tears, and Darryl offers to sell it to him for twice the price. Toby tells him that he does not have the money with him, but Darryl allows him to pay him back later, and Toby becomes visibly happy. He is, however, slightly taken aback when the doll he gets from Darryl is a black version of the doll, but he decides not to complain.
Throughout the day, Phyllis continues to order Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) to do various tasks for the party, such as preparing a plate of bread and hummus, or putting away her Nativity scene and removing the Christmas tree (as neither of those are in the theme of Moroccan Christmas). When Phyllis tells Angela to bring back the Christmas tree after Michael and Meredith leave, Angela refuses. She points out that Angela's affair with Dwight is the one hold Phyllis has on her, and she is confident that Phyllis would not give that up over something so minor. On top of that, Angela states that revealing the secret would mean Phyllis would not be able to be the head of the committee anymore. However, Phyllis immediately announces Angela and Dwight's affair to the office. Everyone is shocked by the revelation, except for Dwight, who seems proud of himself. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), however, is absent for Phyllis' announcement, having been in the annex teaching himself to play a sitar. At the end of the episode, he returns to the party to play "Deck the Halls" for Angela on the sitar, before she asks him to take her home. The rest of the office is still speechless at Phyllis' announcement and neglect to reveal Angela's secret to Andy.
"Moroccan Christmas" was written by Justin Spitzer and directed by Paul Feig. Kate Flannery said shooting this episode was "maybe the most fun I have ever had working in front of a camera".[3] Although Flannery has done her own stunts in previous episodes, including when she was struck by a car in the fourth season premiere "Fun Run", a stuntwoman was used for the scenes in which her hair catches fire in "Moroccan Christmas".[3]
Shortly after Meredith's hair catches fire, Kevin calls her "fire girl". This is a reference to the second season episode "The Fire", in which then-temp Ryan Howard accidentally sets a fire in the office, earning himself the nickname "fire guy".[4] When Meredith angrily declares she is fine during her intervention, Michael refers to two entertainers when he responds, "Was John Belushi fine? Was Bob Hope fine?"[5] While Michael is bartending during the party, he makes Jim a drink containing orange juice and vodka. Though commonly known as a Screwdriver, Michael ignorantly refers to it as an "Orange-Vod-Juice-Ka", implying that he was the first person to concoct it.
This recipe for classic Office awkwardness doesn’t quite work — it feels kind of wrong and weird, even if the image of Michael dragging Meredith by her arms across the floor into the waiting room sounded funny. Everyone seemed to be trying too hard. Maybe an intervention scene just can't be funny.
Will Leitch, New York magazine[6]Phyllis's takeover of the Party Planning Committee and the subsequent fight with Angela ranked number 9 in phillyBurbs.com's top ten moments from the fifth season of The Office.[7]
Brian Howard of The Journal News was mixed in his review of "Moroccan Christmas". He praised the cold open scene, Toby's reaction to the doll and Andy's reaction at the end of the episode. But Howard said he did not enjoy the Moroccan Christmas party theme, and felt scenes of Meredith's alcoholism and Michael dragging her to rehab were more awkward than funny.[5] "Moroccan Christmas" received generally mixed reviews. Alan Sepinwall, television columnist with The Star-Ledger, was highly complimentary toward "Moroccan Christmas", which he said featured "consistent hilarity mixed in with some of the sharpest emotion we've ever gotten from a non Jim & Pam story". Sepinwall called it a strong episode for the Dwight, Andy, Meredith, and Phyllis characters, and particularly complimented the acting of Phyllis Smith.[4] TV Guide writer Shahzad Abbas called it an "excellent episode all around", referring to intervention scene and the fighting among Phyllis and Angela as "really intense stuff". Abbas said he looked forward to seeing the new developments unfold, and said Ed Helms had "never been better with his 'where's these people's Christmas spirit' reaction".[8]
New York magazine writer Will Leitch criticized the episode, claiming the main story between Meredith and Michael seemed forced and did not work. Leitch particularly disliked the Phyllis subplot, claiming her negative behavior toward Angela was out of character and ineffective.[6]


"Lotto" is the third episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 155th episode overall. It was written by Charlie Grandy and directed by cast member John Krasinski. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on October 6, 2011. The episode guest stars Mark Proksch as Nate and Hugh Dane as Hank the security guard.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, the entire warehouse staff quits after winning the lottery, leaving Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) and Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) to scramble for replacements while Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) temporarily get a taste of the warehouse life.
"Lotto" received mixed reviews from television critics, with many enjoying Andy and Darryl's interaction. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was viewed by 5.82 million viewers and received a 3.2 rating/8 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, marking a slight drop in the ratings from the previous episode, "The Incentive".
The six warehouse workers win $950,000 in a lottery pool, and quit in a celebratory fashion of running through the office, making a mess and mooning the staff. Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), who was originally part of the pool but stopped when he was promoted, falls into a depression, unable to find any motivation to work and is further dismayed when his ex-wife's response to him not winning is to ask for the phone number of his pool-winner friend Glenn. Everyone else speculates how they would spend a hypothetical lottery score, with Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) ultimately deciding to fuse their two main ideas into one for a lovely brownstone located in the great outdoors.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) orders Darryl to hire replacements for the warehouse staff, but Darryl is wallowing in his depression and neglects to even look at the applications. With an order due out for one of Phyllis Vance's (Phyllis Smith) most important clients, Andy asks for volunteers to step in for the day and make sure that the order is shipped out. Jim, Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) take over the process, (however, in a talking-head interview, Kevin states that he will deliberately do a poor job because he did not volunteer and was merely suggested for the job because of his large size), but do not know how to use the heavy-lifting equipment and balk at the notion of carrying all the heavy boxes by hand. Upon Kevin's suggestion, they create an oil luge to slide the boxes across the floor, resulting in a lot of damaged inventory. They retool Kevin's idea throughout the day, resulting in still more damaged inventory, and Phyllis ultimately loses the client.
A melancholic Darryl finally assembles a conference room meeting with several potential new hires, but utters several discouraging remarks about the job and exits, leaving Andy alone to take charge of the process. Andy does not know what he is doing and all of the applicants walk out. Darryl blames himself for the failure and demands that Andy fire him, leaving Andy baffled and with no choice but to handle the hiring of new warehouse staff himself.
Andy assembles three applicants: a bodybuilder from Oscar Martinez's (Oscar Nunez) gym, Dwight's building handyman Nate (Mark Proksch), and a PhD candidate who can only work two days a week. Darryl demands anew to be fired, then switches gears: he tells Andy to give him the manager job, saying he deserves it and wants that or a pink slip. Andy then steps up and bluntly tells Darryl he not only is not going to do that, but Darryl was not even the runner-up to Andy in the selection process. As he brings up Darryl's short temper, his hiring of the unqualified Glenn as the warehouse foreman, and his loss of interest in taking business education courses, Darryl finally snaps out of his funk and listens to him. Andy tells Darryl that Jo Bennett loved him and saw something in him, and he simply stopped striving after that. He convinces Darryl to stay on board, and Darryl says he will assemble a new warehouse staff using a combination of his picks and one or two of Andy's applicants.
"Lotto" was written by co-executive producer and series writer Charlie Grandy. The episode was directed by cast member John Krasinski, who portrays Jim Halpert.[3] This was the second episode directed by Krasinski for the series, after sixth season episode "Sabre".[4] The episode guest stars Mark Proksch as Nate. Proksch initially appeared in "Sex Ed", and was hired by Dwight to be a handyman around the office.[5][6]
The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Jim and the others trying to get the truck into the warehouse door but getting the truck stuck instead, Dwight trying to use Kevin as a bumper on the oil track, and Phyllis, Toby, and Ryan revealing what they would do if they won the lottery.[7]
Pam tells Jim that in his lottery fantasy "we're Stephen King characters", due to his desire to live in Maine.[8] During one sequence, the scene begins in medias res when Jim and Dwight are having a conversation about the films Message in a Bottle and The Postman, both of which involve Kevin Costner.[9] Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) mentions that, if he won the lottery, he would spend most of his money on launching his true crime podcast, called The Flenderson Files.[10] During one part, Andy is sad when no one in the office appears to be a fan of Newhart.[11]
In its original American broadcast on NBC, "Lotto" was viewed by 5.82 million viewers and received a 3.2 rating/8 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[12] This means that it was seen by 3.2 percent all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 8 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked an 11 percent drop from the previous episode, "The Incentive" which made it one of the lowest-rated episodes of the series, slightly higher than the first season episode, "Health Care".[13][nb 1]
"Lotto" received mixed reviews from television critics. HitFix reviewer Alan Sepinwall wrote highly of the serious dialogue in the episode, noting that "if there's been a consistent element to Paul Lieberstein's work on this show ... it's that he understands what makes the main characters tick, and is able to use that for real emotional resonance ... When the show wants to give Jim, or Pam, or Dwight, or now Andy a quiet, emotional moment, it's usually still able to do so very well, and that includes most of Andy and Darryl's interaction here in 'Lotto'".[10] He was, however, more critical of the episode's humor, noting that many of the gags had been done before.[10] The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt called the episode superior to the previous episode commenting that "While perhaps not monumentally better than last week's outing and damaged by a weak B-story, 'Lotto' had a greater sense of purpose that holds greater value to the season as it moves forward".[11] He also complimented the writers for not focusing too much on Andy.[11] He ultimately gave the episode a "B".[11]
Cindy White of IGN awarded the episode a seven out of ten, denoting a "good" episode.[16] She wrote that the entry "felt like a mid-season episode, passably amusing, but nothing all that special or memorable".[16] White did, however, call Pam and Jim's discussion about their lottery fantasy "the weakest part of the episode".[16] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode three out of five stars.[9] He called the premise "an interesting buddy story" with "a tremendously inspiring speech from Andy to Darryl".[9] Despite the lackluster rating, Forcella wrote that the episode had its fair share "of hilarious moments".[9] Screencrave reviewer Jeffrey Hyatt awarded the episode a six out of ten and wrote that the episode was not an "A-plus episode [but] the show still delivered some kick-ass dialogue that had me laughing out loud."[17]
Critical reception to Jim, Dwight, Kevin, and Erin in the warehouse was more mixed. Sepinwall criticized the warehouse subplot for "selling them [the characters] out for the sake of a joke".[10] Forcella, who gave the majority of the episode a positive review, was more critical of the installments subplot.[9] Andrew Daglas of ChicagoNow, on the other hand, was more positive towards the subplot, calling it "generally amusing".[8] He called "Ellie Kemper with a smudge of dirt" on her face "totes  [sic] adorbs."[8]

"Promos" is the eighteenth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 194th overall. The episode was written by Tim McAuliffe and directed by Jennifer Celotta. It originally aired on NBC on April 4, 2013. The episode guest stars sports star Ryan Howard, Chris Diamantopoulos, Nora Kirkpatrick, and Allan Havey. Former series regulars Steve Carell and B. J. Novak also appear through archival footage.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, everyone in the office is excited when international promos for the documentary surface, but are soon horrified to discover how much candid filming has taken place. While everyone panics about their secrets being revealed, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) reflects upon how much she and Jim (John Krasinski) have changed over the past nine years. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) makes Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) jealous when he starts dating a Brussels sprout farmer. Meanwhile, at Athlead's office in Philadelphia, Jim and Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) have a big meeting with baseball player Ryan Howard (not to be confused with the former series regular), who pitches a bizarre sci-fi sports movie about himself.
The episode received mostly positive reviews from critics; many felt that while the episode had an interesting theme and that much of the drama was successful, the humor was too broad or forced. The episode was viewed by 3.44 million viewers and received a 1.8/5 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode ranked fourth in its timeslot, and it was the highest-rated NBC series of the night, though it was lowest rated episode of The Office at the time of airing.
The office is excited to see promos for the upcoming WVIA documentary The Office: An American Workplace, which consists of the footage of them that has been compiled over the past nine years. However, many of the workers are dismayed to learn just how much of their activities have been recorded; for instance, Dwight and Angela's affair that occurred a year ago was captured. Several excuse themselves and go to the warehouse to talk, turning off their microphones in an unsuccessful effort to keep the discussion private.  Pete Miller (Jake Lacy) suggests that Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) talk to dismissed crew member Brian (Chris Diamantopoulos) to learn more. At Brian's house, Pam tells him that upon seeing the old footage she thinks Jim's feelings for her have largely faded, and Brian agrees. When she asks about what the crew filmed, he tells her that every important moment was captured even when not wearing their microphones. Realizing the extent to which their privacy has been violated, Pam storms out of Brian's house. On re-watching the promo, Pam decides she is glad that the history of her relationship with Jim has been captured.
Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) and Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) call Angela's husband Senator Robert Lipton (Jack Coleman) to inform him that the documentary will probably out him and reveal that Angela slept with Dwight. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) becomes obsessed with online comments regarding his brief appearance in the promo, posting lengthy replies and even uploading his own video in response to negative reactions. The documentary crew discovers that Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) has left at least some of the negative comments, taking pleasure in Andy's annoyance.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) starts dating a Brussels sprout farmer, Esther Bruegger (Nora Kirkpatrick), while negotiating the purchase of a tractor with her father Henry (Allan Havey). Dwight does poorly in the negotiations, yielding to all of Henry's terms. During the haggling, Esther's sisters flirt with Clark Green (Clark Duke) and try to coax him into buying farming equipment. Clark stops Dwight from signing the papers and takes him aside to tell him that he thinks Esther and her sisters are too physically attractive to be interested in men like them, and that Esther is probably just dating him so that her father can take advantage of him on the tractor deal. Dwight sees the logic in Clark's suspicion. However, Esther appears and tells Dwight that he should not sign the contract and negotiate for a better deal. Dwight realizes that Esther does care for him after all and go for a ride on the tractor, much to Angela's dismay.
At the Athlead offices, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) have a meeting with Major League Baseball player Ryan Howard. The meeting ends up with Darryl and Jim reading Ryan's self-written screenplay of a baseball player turned alien-fighting superhero.
"Promos" was written by consulting producer Tim McAuliffe, his first writing credit for the series. It was directed by former series writer, director, and co-showrunner Jennifer Celotta, her third such credit for the series.[2] The episode features Philadelphia Phillies star Ryan Howard playing himself. This marks the second time a major sports star has played themselves for the season, as former Philadelphia 76ers star Julius Erving portrayed himself in the episode "Lice".[3] Robinson later said that Ryan "killed it" and that "He's pretty damn funny in real life, which doesn't always translate to TV".[4] He also joked that Howard is "definitely a better actor than John Krasinski. Without a doubt."[4] The titular promos are composed of stock footage from The Office, primarily from early seasons of the series. They feature the departed characters Michael Scott (Steve Carell) (in clips from previous episodes) and Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak).[5]
In the cold open, Phyllis is seen listening to an audiobook of the erotic romance novel Fifty Shades of Grey on her iPod, which makes everyone uncomfortable due to her arousal. Ryan Howard makes reference to the restaurant Subway's slogan, "Eat Fresh", a reference to the fact that he is a spokesman for the franchise. During the table read of Howard's screenplay, he mentions that it is of utmost importance for them to secure the rights to the name Darth Vader from the popular space movie series Star Wars. Oscar notes that Angela's husband—when he was dressed as former US president Ronald Reagan for Halloween—kissed him like former president John F. Kennedy.[6] The title of the in-series documentary, The Office: An American Workplace, is the name given to the series itself when it was broadcast in the UK to differentiate it from the British version of the show.[7] In the context of the series and episode, it is revealed that the documentary is scheduled to air on WVIA-TV, the actual Scranton PBS affiliate.[8]
"Promos" originally aired on April 4, 2013 on NBC.[1] In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by an estimated 3.44 million viewers and received a 1.8 rating/5 percent share.[9] This means that it was seen by 1.8 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 5 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[9] This marked a decrease in the ratings from the previous episode, "The Farm".[10] The Office ranked fourth in its timeslot, being beaten by an entry of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which received a 2.8/8 percent rating, an episode of
the CBS police procedural Person of Interest which received a 2.7/8 percent rating, and an installment of the Fox comedy series New Girl which earned a 2.0/6 rating.[9]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B−". He noted that it "represents a tipping point for The Office" because it eliminates the fact that—while the characters have known they were on camera—many of the people that the documentary is following have not realized the extent to which the camera people have been following and recording them." Adams said that strong plots such as Pam's realization about her relationship with Jim were rushed, and that other plots, like Dwight's, were made to "[run] out the clock".[8] M. Giant of Television Without Pity awarded the episode a "B−".[6]
Roth Cornet of IGN awarded the episode a 7.9 out of 10, denoting a "good" episode. She argued the episode had a "cohesive, united feel", even though Jim and Darryl were separated from the main action, that "past, present, and (possible) future combined together nicely", and that "the emotion wasn't overplayed". However, she said that this was not the "funniest episode of The Office that we've ever seen".[11] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode 3.5 stars out of 5, and criticized the reintroduction of Brian, saying it felt "forced" and that it ruined "something so innately interesting".[12]
Nick Campbell of TV.com wrote that the quality of the episode hinged on whether or not the viewer could accept the fact that the characters were unaware of the extent of the footage that the camera crew caught. He wrote that "If you can ride with the Scranton branch not understanding what 'being filmed all the time' means, this might have been a pretty funny episode. If you can't ... then the premise of this episode is pretty awful." He concluded that while "Promos" had "its moments", it was not the most solid of the series' episodes.[13] Alan Sepinwall of HitFix felt that "there was good idea hiding inside of 'The Promo'  [sic]", but that much of the episode was undermined by the broad nature of the humor.[14]



"Michael's Last Dundies" is the twenty-first episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 147th episode overall. It originally aired on NBC on April 21, 2011. The episode was written and directed by co-executive producer Mindy Kaling. "Michael's Last Dundies" guest stars Will Ferrell as Deangelo Vickers and Jack Coleman as State Senator Robert Lipton.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) trains his office replacement, Deangelo Vickers (Ferrell) on how to properly host the branch's annual Dundie Awards. Michael soon learns that Deangelo has a terrible problem with speaking in front of others. Meanwhile, Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) grows to dislike her boyfriend, Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods).
The episode—which was originally going to be called "Goodbye, Michael Part 1"—was the first installment in the series to be both written and directed by Kaling, who also portrays Kelly Kapoor on the series. The episode also marks the second appearance of Ferrell as Deangelo Vickers; Ferrell had signed onto the series to make Carell's exit transition easier. The episode received mostly positive reviews from television critics. "Michael's Last Dundies" was viewed by 6.849 million viewers and received a 3.3 rating among adults between the age of 18 and 49. The episode was the highest-rated NBC series of the week that it aired, as well as the sixth-most watched episode in the 18–49 demographic for the week it aired.
At the office, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) announces to the employees that Deangelo Vickers (Will Ferrell) will be his co-host at the Dundies. The Dundies are an annual award program created by Michael to motivate his employees. The idea of performance is worrisome to Deangelo, but Michael insists he take the job. Michael brings some of the staff together in the conference room to help Deangelo get prepared for the show, but he struggles to be humorous. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) tries to help him, saying he should just think of performing like conducting a meeting, but Michael objects, wanting Deangelo to mimic his style. Michael tries a number of different things to help Deangelo, such as sitting on his stomach and making him listen to a Walkman at full volume so he cannot hear himself think, but none are effective.
Meanwhile, Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) see Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) eating lunch alone in her car. She explains that she has begun doing this to get some time away from Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods), whom she is starting to despise.  Pam and Jim reluctantly enter the car (and looks visibly weary when Erin outright says she doesn't want to string Gabe along the way Pam did Roy) but she hides from a clueless Erin long enough to just suggests that Erin admit to Gabe her real feelings as soon as possible. Jim leaves the car making it very clear that he's not interested in interacting with Erin or listening to her problems.
After work, the employees arrive at an Italian restaurant named Louie Volpe's to celebrate the Dundies. Moments after being introduced, Deangelo disappears into the bathroom to vomit. Eventually, Michael is able to psych him up, and the show begins. The show continues to go poorly, with most of Michael's jokes offending more than amusing the employees. Dwight wins the "Promising Assistant Manager" Dundie, but as he is still mad at Michael for not recommending he replace Michael, he tosses his award in the trash. Erin wins the "Cutest Redhead" award and gives a speech in which she breaks up with Gabe (and cites a horrified Pam as her inspiration for doing so), and Gabe leaves the ceremony in humiliation. Michael awards Deangelo with the "Best Dundies Host" award. The staff urges him to make a speech, but as he nervously tries to yell over his Walkman, the ceremony is kicked out of the restaurant. Michael is upset that his last Dundies Award show was a disappointment, but the staff convinces him to continue the event at the office.
After Dwight, still angry with Michael, insults the Dundies and leaves, Michael and Deangelo continue the event in the conference room. After the last award, Andy leads the employees in serenading the soon-to-depart Michael with an altered version of the song "Seasons of Love" called "9,986,000 Minutes;" Michael is touched, stating that "this is gonna hurt like a motherf**ker."
In a tag scene, Michael "rewards" Toby with the honor of the Most Repulsive Person in the office, to Deangelo's surprise. Toby refuses to accept the award at first but thanks to some "it's his last Dundies, you kind of have to" nudging from Jim does take the trophy from Michael. When Toby mentions that he's not sure the person convicted as the Scranton Stranger is guilty, Dwight does a "ba-bump" sound effect on the drum, and the audience is completely silent.
"Michael's Last Dundies" was written and directed by co-executive producer Mindy Kaling, the first time that she has both directed and written an episode of the series. Kaling was also the writer of the second season episode "The Dundies",[2] an episode to which "Michael's Last Dundies" serves as a sequel in many ways.[3] The episode was originally titled "Goodbye, Michael Part 1" before NBC announced that "Goodbye, Michael" would be an extended 36-minute episode and this episode was re-titled "Michael's Last Dundies".[4][5] In the episode, a cue card features Dwight's last name spelled incorrectly as "Shrute". Kaling later admitted on Twitter that she had spelled the name that way "in every script I've written since 'Hot Girl'."[6]
The episode is the second of Will Ferrell's four-episode guest stint on the series. Ferrell signed on to appear in Carell's final three episodes, and the first episode without Carell, "The Inner Circle", to make Carell's transition easier. Ferrell initially called the producers and offered to appear in a few episodes in Carell's last season, because he is "a fan and wanted to commemorate Carell’s swan song".[7] He had previously starred alongside Carell, in the 2004 film, Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy.[7]
The Season Seven DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Michael talking about his last Dundies using comedians as metaphors, Dwight booing Deangelo in order to adequately prepare him for his actual speech, various clips from the actual Dundies awards and of people accepting their awards, a cut scene featuring a video of Michael interviewing Danny Cordray (Timothy Olyphant) at his house, and Andy talking to Erin about loading the printer so that she can take her mind off of Gabe.[8]
In this episode, Michael Scott describes the Dundies as "like the Golden Globes but less mean", referring to Ricky Gervais' hosting of the 2011 Golden Globe Awards, which left critics questioning if he had gone "too far".[9][10] As executive producer of the American series and co-creator of the original British series, Gervais stated on his blog that the line was intended as "a little in-joke".[10] Near the beginning of the episode, Deangelo compares Meredith Palmer's (Kate Flannery) house to the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Michael notes that "When Larry King died, they didn't just cancel his show", showing that Michael is unaware that Larry King was not deceased.[11] Later, he notes that  "they got Piers Morgan to come in and do his show" instead.[11] The final song that the office sings to Michael is a parody of "Seasons of Love" from the Broadway musical Rent. Dwight later reveals in a talking head that he is always the padawan learner, and never a Jedi knight, a reference to the 1977 film Star Wars and its franchise. Michael notes that he wanted his last Dundies celebration to be like the 1990 film The Godfather Part III, rather than the "confusing" 1972 film The Godfather I, which he notes had "three big laughs".[11] Additionally, the episode contains several references to the film The King's Speech, notably during the scene in which Deangelo gives his speech at the Dundies while listening to his Walkman played at a high volume.[11]
In its original American broadcast, "Michael's Last Dundies" was viewed by an estimated 6.849 million households and received a 3.3 rating/10% share in the 18–49 demographic.[12] This means that it was seen by 3.3% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a significant drop in the ratings from the previous episode, "Training Day".[13] Despite this, the episode became the highest-rated NBC program for the original week it aired and also became the sixth-most-watched show for the week of broadcast among adults aged 18–49.[14]
'Michael’s Last Dundies' obviously wants to take on a particular meaning given that final song [...] As a result, I think it is perfectly fair to hold the show accountable for the fact that the rest of it was built around a transparent set of bits being played by two actors, not two characters, and to wish that the big picture was more than just a musical afterthought in Carell’s next-to-last episode.
Myles McNutt, The A.V. Club[2]The episode received a moderately positive review from Cindy White of IGN. She said "the laughs were scarce this episode" but the lack of humor was compensated by the "emotional highlights".[3] However, she praised the performances of many of the supporting cast. She ultimately gave the episode a 7 out of 10, denoting a "good" episode.[3] Alan Sepinwall of HitFix felt that the episode was "very up-and-down", largely due to inconsistent writing.[15] He did, however, feel that the ending song was "beautiful" and "enough to justify" the episode.[15] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode four-and-a-half stars out of five and called it "funny and sweet" and "a perfect penultimate episode for Steve Carell".[16]
Myles McNutt of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B−".[2] He felt that it was appropriate that Steve Carell's time on the series was bookended largely by the Dundies; he noted that the episode in which the awards were introduced—the eponymous second season entry—served as "a second pilot of sorts" for the series, and the idea to bring the Dundies back made sense at the time in order to see how the characters had grown.[2] However, he felt that the episode at large did not live up to its source material, and that it was "occasionally funny but unfortunately meaningless".[2] The ending song, however, in McNutt's opinion, was a highlight of the episode.[2]
Will Ferrell's character received criticism in the episode. White criticized Deangelo Vickers, noting that she did not have a handle on the character and that he was too "downright normal" and "practically boring".[3] McNutt argued that, while Ferrell "is not really the problem with the role" of Deangelo Vickers, the actions between Ferrell and Carell felt more like "hanging out to commemorate the former’s departure from a television show" rather than the two playing believable characters.[2] He also felt that Deangelo "feels disruptive to the show’s narrative" because his character gets in the way of the plot.[2] Sepinwall felt that parts of the episode fell flat because it spent "so much time giving Will Ferrell stuff to do".[15] He further noted that "nobody has come up with a good reason for him being here other than that he's Will Ferrell."[15]


"Garden Party" is the fourth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 156th episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on October 13, 2011. It was written by co-executive producer Justin Spitzer and was directed by David Rogers and marks Mindy Kaling's first credit as executive producer. "Garden Party" features guest appearances from Josh Groban, Dee Wallace, and Stephen Collins.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) throws a garden party at Schrute Farms to impress Robert California (James Spader), with Bernard's parents and brother in attendance. Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) works to make it a classy event.
"Garden Party" features a substantial appearance by Josh Groban; Kaling had asked Groban if he could guest star in the series, through Twitter. The episode received mixed reviews from critics, with criticism towards its repetition of plot ideas. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Garden Party" drew more than 6 million viewers and received a 3.2 rating/8% share in the 18–49 demographic, staying even with the previous episode, "Lotto". It ranked third in its timeslot, and ranked as the highest-rated NBC series on Thursday.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) decides to throw a garden party at Schrute Farms to impress his parents and Robert California (James Spader), and exhaustively explains party manners to the office workers. Andy is jealous at the amount of attention his younger brother Walter Bernard, Jr. (Josh Groban) receives from his father, and thinks that by throwing an elaborate party he can ensure his father's blessings. At first, the party goes along smoothly. Andy makes a toast to Robert in order to get his fellow employees to toast him, as if to show to his parents and California that he is valued by his employees. His plan backfires, however, and instead more people toast Robert, and Robert's toast is about the easiness of the manager job. To get everybody's mind off of Robert, Andy decides to sing "More Than Words" as a duet with his father. This too goes awry as his father corrects his playing and singing, and ultimately decides to sing a duet with Walter Jr. instead of Andy. Upset, Andy takes his guitar and storms off.
His father confronts him privately about his outburst, and when Andy admits to trying to win his father's affection, he reacts with annoyance, harshly telling him that he is simply not proud of Andy's accomplishments, and is annoyed at Andy's attempts to gain his approval. This conversation is overheard by the other staff on the baby monitor Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) brought for their daughter, and Pam quickly turns off the monitor to let Andy save face. Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) and Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) confide to the camera that they now understand why Andy feels he needs to prove himself to everyone. After his family leaves, a dejected Andy, feeling unwanted by his family and co-workers, says goodbye to the office staff as they turn the garden party into a barbecue. Darryl and Oscar, however, convince Andy to stay with a cheeseburger and a beer.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) wants to make the garden party a classy event to expand Schrute Farms' clientele. He thoroughly reads a book called The Ultimate Guide to Throwing A Garden Party that he bought online, actually written by Jim under the pseudonym "James Trickington". The book gives outlandish advice such as announcing each guest's name as they arrive in an extremely loud manner, imitating The Last Supper in a tableau vivant in the middle of a meal, dancing with his party staff, and a fire court dance as the closing ceremonies, all of which Dwight follows to the letter.
Pam feuds with co-worker Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) over baby names. Pam and Angela learn they've both chosen the name Phillip for their soon-to-be-born sons, with Pam naming her child after her deceased grandfather and Angela after her favorite cat. Angela, annoyed that Pam does not relinquish the name, makes a toast to "my son Phillip" at the garden party—only to have Pam make the same toast but describe in great detail how the name honors her grandfather. Angela, unwilling to reveal her feline-centric reasons for the name, simply grouses to the camera that Pam is always copying her.
Throughout the party, Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) keeps hinting at how cold she is, hoping Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) will offer his jacket. However, Ryan instantly offers his jacket to Robert, who is not even cold. Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) also offers his, hinting at a rivalry between them in terms of sucking up to Robert, later evidenced in "Pool Party". Dwight's cousin Mose (Michael Schur) has fun being a valet, lining up the guests' cars in a field to perform a motorcycle stunt. However, he fails to get his motorcycle up the ramp, and instead runs across the tops of the cars, but is still satisfied.
The episode was written by co-executive producer Justin Spitzer, his 10th writing credit for the series. It was directed by series editor David Rogers, his 4th directing credit for the series. Beginning with this episode, Mindy Kaling was promoted to executive producer.[1] Before this, it was speculated that she might not return to the series as a writer.[2] The episode features guest appearance from Stephen Collins, Dee Wallace and Josh Groban as Andy's father, mother and brother, respectively. Collins and Wallace were reported to appear on the series by Joyce Eng of TV Guide.[3] Josh Groban was later reported to appear on the series the next day.[4] Writer Mindy Kaling had sent Groban a message through Twitter asking if he would want to appear on the series.[5] He responded yes with the filming week of the episode lining up with his Los Angeles concert for his Straight to You Tour.[5]
In its original American broadcast on October 13, 2011, "Garden Party" was viewed by an estimated 6.050 million viewers and received a 3.2 rating/8% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[6] This means that it was seen by 3.2% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 8% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. Although seeing a 3.8% increase in viewership, the episode matched the 18–49 demo rating from the previous episode, "Lotto".[7] The episode ranked third in its timeslot beating Person of Interest which received a 2.7 rating/7% share in the 18–49 demographic and The Secret Circle which received a 0.8 rating/2% share, but was defeated by Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.4 rating/9% share and The X Factor which received a 3.6 rating/10% share.[6]
The episode received mixed reviews from critics. HitFix writer Alan Sepinwall stated that the episode "offered more laughs than some of this season's other episodes". Despite this, he criticized the episode's main plot with Andy, commenting that "where giving Michael Scott power made him a funnier character than he would have been were he just another salesman, Andy has somehow become less funny since the promotion".[8] Chris Plante of New York called the episode "funny, weird, touching, and unpredictable. A gem, really".[9] National Post writer Barry Hertz compared the episode to "Booze Cruise", "Beach Games" and "The Search".[10] M. Giant of Television Without Pity gave the episode a B−.[11] Several critics praised the return of former Office writer, Michael Schur as Mose Schrute.[8][12] Barry Hertz said that "the sight gag of him running atop a field of cars like a watered-down Evel Knievel was enough to give this episode an easy A".[10]
Despite this, the episode received some negative reviews. The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt was more negative towards the episode writing that "Here, we have a case where an episode could have signaled at least some sense of what else the show might be interested in other than Andy as the well-meaning but hapless boss and Pam and Angela's dueling pregnancies, and all we got were variations on those storylines with no new angle either narratively". He gave the episode a C.[12] IGN writer Cindy White considered the episode superior to previous "external" episodes "Christening" and "Phyllis' Wedding", but considered it inferior to the "Niagara" and the "classic" "Booze Cruise". She criticized the main plot for rehashing previous plot lines and ultimately gave the episode a 7.0/10.[13]


"Trivia" is the eleventh episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 163rd episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on January 12, 2012. It was written by Steve Hely and was directed by executive producer B. J. Novak.
In this episode, Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) reveals that he is partaking in a trivia contest in Philadelphia and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) tries to get the entire office involved. Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) journeys to Florida and meets with his boss, Robert California (James Spader), in order to explore other job opportunities.
After airing, the episode sparked a debate among fans, as well as critics, as to whether former leading actor Steve Carell had made an uncredited cameo as a member of an opposing trivia team. NBC later denied that Carell had made an appearance and stated that the situation was just a coincidence. "Trivia" received mostly positive reviews from critics, with many noting that the episode marked an improvement from the first part of the season. Despite this, several reviews were critical of the Dwight sub-plot. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Trivia" drew 5.87 million viewers and received a 2.9 rating/7% share in the 18–49 demographic, staying relatively even with the previous three episodes, "Christmas Wishes", "Gettysburg" and "Mrs. California". It ranked third in its timeslot and was the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), worried that he will not be able to meet the 8% quarterly sales growth figures that Robert California (James Spader) asked for by about $800, proposes that everyone in the office buy paper to alleviate some of the burden, but no one is willing. He then asks Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) to make a rounding mistake in the books. Oscar tells Andy that he does not have time to make the mistake because he is leaving for a trivia contest with a $1,000 prize in a bar in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Andy, encouraged by Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), decides to take the entire office to Philadelphia in an attempt to win the money and make up the sales growth difference. At the bar, which turns out to be a gay bar called the Liberty Well, Andy divides the office into three teams: the A-Team consisting of Jim, Darryl, Andy, and Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), the B-Team consisting of Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker), Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith), Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton), and Cathy Simms (Lindsey Broad), and the "Just For Fun" team consisting of Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling), Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), and Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery). Oscar refuses to join Andy and stays on his original team. Initially, the Dunder Mifflin A-Team does well but soon falters. However, the "Just For Fun" team (calling themselves The Einsteins) does much better than expected because of the group's trivial knowledge on a variety of issues (though at one point, they ironically get a question about Albert Einstein wrong). They make it to the final round against Oscar's team and eventually win thanks to Kevin's correct answers. However, the Just for Fun team later get demolished while trying to win another bar's even more lucrative trivia contest.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) heads down to Florida to meet with Robert California at the Sabre headquarters to discuss a possible manager position in the printers division. While sitting in the waiting room, Dwight talks to Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods), who describes himself as the essential "toilet of the company" who flushes all the unwanted items away. Robert then tells Dwight that he cannot meet with him but will have him meet with Bill, another executive, much to Dwight's frustration. Robert secretly calls Gabe and instructs him to not let Dwight speak with Bill either, but to listen to Dwight's pitch and then reject him. Gabe can barely keep a straight face throughout Dwight's pitch. Dwight, after being told by Gabe that Dwight isn't wanted as a manager, grabs and twists Gabe's arm and forces him to take him to Robert's Florida condo. Initially, Robert tries to spare Dwight's feelings, telling him that his drive and energy would be wasted in a manager's position and attempting to give him a medal as a sign of respect. Dwight resists, so Robert eventually turns him down by telling him he is a better salesman. Dwight then returns to Scranton.
The episode was written by supervising producer Steve Hely, at the time, his second writing credit for the series.[1][2] It was directed by executive producer and cast member B. J. Novak, who portrays Ryan Howard on the show.[1] The episode also marks the fifth appearance of Lindsey Broad, who plays Cathy, Pam's replacement during her maternity leave.[3] She appeared in a recurring role for the season and she initially appeared in "Pam's Replacement."[3][4] Due to Jenna Fischer's actual pregnancy, Pam did not appear in the episode.[5] After airing, the episode sparked a debate among fans, as well as critics, as to whether former leading actor Steve Carell had made an uncredited cameo as a member of an opposing trivia team, The Queerstein Bears.[6] NBC later denied that Carell had made an appearance and stated that the situation was just a coincidence.[7] The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Andy attempting to get the office to sell $800 worth of paper in a day, and Andy trying to switch team members in order to boost Dunder Mifflin A-Team's chance of winning.[8]
Due to the episode largely taking place at a trivia contest, "Trivia" featured a plethora of cultural references. After Ryan uses his smart phone, the trivia reader chides him for checking his Grindr account, a geosocial networking application for gay men.[9] Dwight compares himself to a Spanish conquistador, coming to Florida to "claim what is rightfully [his]."[9] Several of the trivia teams featured names with culturally related puns. The teams included: The Queerenstein Bears, Joey Triviani, Impish Impresarios, Two Broke Dorks, Jason So-Gay-Kiss, Ladies Gaga, Aesop's Foibles, and Lawrence O-Trivier.[1]
Many of the references were either the answers to trivia questions, or incorrect guesses. The "Einsteins" erroneously guess "See-atle" when asked what the capital of the state that was on Ray Charles' mind when he wrote one of his most famous songs was.[10] After being asked a question about Albert Einstein, the "Einsteins" answer with Thomas Edison, much to the delight of the sarcastic trivia reader.[11] L'Damian Washington is referenced by Ryan incorrectly as the winner of the NBA's Sixth Man of the Year Award in 2011. Kelly is able to correctly guess the answer to the same question because she cross-referenced her knowledge of Khloe and Lamar and Dancing with the Stars.[12] Kevin knows that the answer to the final trivia question is the 2001 French film Les Jolies Choses, starring Marion Cotillard, because Cotillard "exposes herself a number of times."[11]
"Trivia" originally aired on NBC in the United States on January 12, 2012.[13] The episode was viewed by an estimated 5.87 million viewers and received a 2.9 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[14]  This means that it was seen by 2.9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[14] The episode remained relatively equal in ratings compared with the previous episode, "Christmas Wishes."[14][15] The episode finished third in its time slot, being beaten by Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.8 rating/9% share and the CBS drama Person of Interest which received a 3.2 rating/8% share in the 18–49 demographic.[14] The episode, however, did manage to beat the Fox drama series The Finder and The CW drama series The Secret Circle.[14]
"Trivia" received relatively positive reviews, although many critics did not enjoy the Florida sub-plot. Many television critics agreed that "Trivia" was a marked improvement over many of the episodes in the first part of the season.[11][12][16] Craig McQuinn from The Faster Times wrote, "Aside from a few weak moments, 'Trivia' was a solid episode of The Office and a vast improvement over most of the episodes this season."[16] Myles McNutt from The A.V. Club awarded the episode a B+ rating and wrote positively of the trivia plot, saying, "When The Office reaches its next hiatus, and then its subsequent return, I’ll find myself hoping for more like the trivia side of 'Trivia', storylines that even after contrived introductions can simply sit back and let the character-driven jokes take over the narrative."[11] Chris Plante from New York magazine explained that "If you plan to continue watching The Office, here’s my advice ... You need to forget the negative energy this show attracts. Start thinking of Season Eight like a reboot." He concluded that "The Office is not irreparable. It’s not great either, but there is some marked improvement here over the worst episodes from the first half of the season."[12] Lizzie Fuhr from BuzzSugar.com wrote positively on both the trivia A-plot and the Dwight and Robert B-plot.[9] TV Fanatic reviewer Dan Forcella called the trivia conceit "quite fun" and awarded the episode 3.5 out of 5 stars.[10] The Huffington Post wrote that "The Office continues to find fun and unique ways to spotlight how mundane office life can be by showing ways the gang finds to fill their day."[17] Alan Sepinwall from HitFix, who was notably critical of the new season, called the episode "charming."[18] IGN reviewer Cindy White noted that the episode bore stylistic similarities to the third episode of the British version of the show, entitled "The Quiz", writing that "while 'Trivia' does loosely allude to that pub quiz with a bar trivia night, that turns out to be the only thing the two have in common." She did, however, positively write about the humor of the episode, noting that, "the writers squeezed some good laughs out of the idea, and it feels good to be laughing again at The Office."[6]
While a large majority of critics praised the main trivia storyline, many reviews criticized the Dwight and Robert plot. McNutt wrote that, "As the trivia storyline was building momentum, the Florida storyline was killing that same momentum, a push-and-pull that the trivia ended up winning."[11] Forcella explained that "the titular storyline of the gang playing 'Trivia' in Philadelphia worked really well, but the forced trio in Florida definitely did not."[10] Jill Mader from InsidePulse.com wrote, "All in all, I thought it was an inconsistent episode – I liked the trivia storyline, but the Dwight stuff really fell flat for me."[19]



"Company Picnic" is the fifth season finale of the American comedy television series The Office and the 100th overall episode of the series. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on May 14, 2009. In the episode, Michael plans to win back his ex-girlfriend Holly at a Dunder Mifflin company picnic, while the rest of the Scranton office get involved in a competitive company volleyball tournament.
The episode was written by Paul Lieberstein and Jennifer Celotta, and directed by Ken Kwapis. It marked return appearances of former guest stars Amy Ryan as Holly Flax and Idris Elba as Charles Miner. Actress Jenna Fischer is not as talented a volleyball player as she is portrayed in the episode, so some of her scenes were modified with computer-generated imagery.
The scene in which Jim and Pam discover the pregnancy includes no dialogue, and is a homage to a similar scene in the original British version of The Office, where Tim Canterbury silently proclaims his love for Dawn Tinsley. The episode also features a sketch about the history of Dunder Mifflin which parodies the film Slumdog Millionaire.
"Company Picnic" received generally positive reviews, particularly for the return of Holly and the scene in which Jim discovers Pam is pregnant. According to Nielsen ratings, the episode was watched by 6.72 million viewers. It was the lowest-rated episode of the season and had the lowest original episode rating for The Office in two years, which reviewers said was especially surprising given that it was a season finale episode.
Employees arrive at the Dunder Mifflin company picnic, where Michael Scott (Steve Carell) plans to win back his ex-girlfriend Holly Flax (Amy Ryan), whom he has not seen since she was transferred back to Nashua. Holly arrives with her boyfriend A.J. (Rob Huebel), who tells Michael the couple are designing a house together. CFO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) allows Michael and Holly to do a presentation about the history of Dunder Mifflin, and the two spend time in the woods to come up with ideas. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) run into Charles Miner (Idris Elba) for the first time since he left Scranton, and Charles is still short with Jim. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) brings his best friend, Rolf (James Urbaniak), who makes constant insults to Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) for breaking Dwight's heart; Dwight tells Rolf to stop, much to Angela's surprise. The Scranton branch competes in the picnic's volleyball tournament, facing off against the other branches of Dunder Mifflin. They initially struggle until Pam reveals herself to be a very talented volleyball player. With her help, they reach the final round where they face the corporate head office.
Michael and Holly perform a skit that parodies Slumdog Millionaire (called "SlumDunder Mifflinaire"), presenting Dunder Mifflin trivia in the form of Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?, as well as acting out torture scenes featured in the film. Nobody except Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker), finds their presentation amusing, but things take a turn for the worse when they reveal that the Buffalo branch, whose staff are hearing this announcement for the first time, will be closing in the near future because of the economic recession. After reluctantly confirming this news to the Buffalo staff, David berates Michael for revealing this as it was something David told to Michael in confidence. In his own defense, Michael insists he thought they already knew about it. As Michael and Holly talk about next year's presentation, he prepares to ask for her back but stops himself, deciding not to ruin the moment. As Holly leaves with A. J., Michael says he believes he will eventually be reunited with Holly, although potentially not for a long time—and he's fine with this because "I'm in no rush".
The Scranton branch faces off against the corporate branch, commenting that they deserve to lose for deciding to close down Buffalo. The game is close, and Pam ends up injuring her ankle, although she wants to continue. Seeing an opportunity to remove Scranton's best player from the game, Charles insists that Pam take a seat on the grounds of her injury being a company liability. Determined to beat corporate, Jim takes Pam to a local hospital to get an X-ray while Dwight stalls the game to give them time to get back. When the doctor calls Jim into the room for an update, the doctor informs Jim and Pam of some news that causes them to be ecstatic. Jim then calls Dwight to send in the substitute players.
The episode was written by Paul Lieberstein and Jennifer Celotta, and directed by Ken Kwapis. "Company Picnic" was the 100th overall episode of The Office, and show creator Greg Daniels said he was especially proud the series made it to that landmark because he felt it meant he did not disappoint Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant, who created the original British version of the show. Daniels said, "I remember interviewing with them seven years ago, and this (100th episode) was certainly the goal, so I'm very pleased that we got to 100 episodes in a strong fashion. I think the show is in a very good place right now."[1] Steve Carell said he was especially pleased with the landmark because when the show began, people had doubts it would live up to the original series and were skeptical about its mockumentary style: "It's sort of remarkable, especially with this show because I don't think anybody felt it would go past the pilot. ... I think most everyone was kind of dubious about our chances of pulling it off."[2] Likewise, Ben Silverman, co-chairman of NBC Entertainment and an Office executive producer, said, "It's a thrill that we got to 100 episodes, and probably incredibly surprising looking back at the process it took. But the reality is, we believed in it."[3]
"Company Picnic" was filmed in Malibu, California. The episode featured about 360 extras,[4] and was shot over the course of four days.[5] Actor Ed Helms said of the episode, "What the writers did is really fun and creative. It doesn't boil down to passive aggressive little picnic games with a vengeance. There's a lot more going on than that."[6] The episode marked return appearances of former guest stars Amy Ryan as Holly Flax and Idris Elba as Charles Miner.[7] Ryan said she would love the prospect of returning to The Office in future episodes, but that there were no plans for such a return at the time: "I think that door [to return] will always be open, just because it's such a nice party to go to. But that said, there are no plans any time soon for them to be reunited again."[8]
In an interview with The Office fansite "OfficeTally", Celotta said she and Lieberstein had only about one weekend to finish the script and distribute it to the actors, so there was little discussion about their individual volleyball abilities. Once the scripts were circulated, the writers learned that Jenna Fischer was not very good at volleyball and had trouble making certain motions with her arm over her head due to a previous injury. As a result, director Ken Kwapis arranged for stunt doubles to perform some of the volleyball moves; a handful of scenes were also shot with Pam doing an overhead motion with the ball being added later using computer-generated imagery. The opening credits were trimmed down to ten seconds and no post-credits scene was used in order to keep the episode within the network-mandated 21 minutes and 35 seconds. The producers considered making the episode an hour long like other season finales from past seasons, like "The Job" and "Goodbye, Toby", but they found they did not have enough plot points to conclude in "Company Picnic" and would have had trouble filling a full hour.[9]
Precautions were taken to prevent secrets from the season finale being revealed; only certain staff members were provided with copies of the episode, which were given on watermarked DVDs and distributed to secret hiding places. The writers wanted Michael to have a big plan to get Holly back, but to realize throughout the course of the day that his relationship with Holly was something special and that he did not want to disrupt it; they felt it showed that Michael had become more mature, calm and confident about this relationship than that of Jan Levinson and others in his past. The first scene with Michael and Holly discussing their sketch possibilities in a secluded area was filmed with three cameras: one focusing on each side of the two actors, and one from the front of both of them to establish that the picnic was still going on behind them. Due to space limitations, the latter angle was filmed through a mirror (with the actors appearing to be opposite sides) and then the image was reversed and undistorted in post-production.[9]
Although the "SlumDunder Mifflinaire" skit and the scenes in which it was prepared were all scripted, Carell and Ryan improvised several of the moments including Michael's "Yay!" cheer upon getting an answer right, the bow Carell and Ryan take at the end while the Buffalo branch employees are angry, and Michael's Indian accent. Carell improvised with several different accents on the set, with the producers settling on the one that sounded most like the character from the film, although he used his regular accent when answering the final question in the skit. Carell and Ryan also made up the Jaws song parody ("Dunder...Dunder...") while filming, and Carell made up the subsequent line "We're circling it" about their good sketch idea. The extras were told not to laugh or react at all to the "SlumDunder Mifflinaire" sketch, but Carell and Ryan were not told of those instructions in order to create a genuine stage fright awkwardness among the two actors; Ryan in particular was thrown off guard by their lack of response.[9]
The ending sequence with Pam and Jim in the hospital was filmed at the North Hollywood Medical Center using the Sacred Heart Hospital set from Scrubs.[10] Although the good news Jim and Pam learn in the hospital was never specifically stated, episode writer Jen Celotta confirmed that the news was that Pam was pregnant; the script included an off-hand question from a nurse to Pam about whether she was pregnant so that viewers would make the connection later. Celotta said the idea of the pregnancy came as the writers were working on this specific episode, although she felt the show had always been heading in that direction. The series producers considered filming the scene with audible dialogue, but they thought the scene was more powerful without audio and felt actors John Krasinski and Jenna Fischer "are such great actors and have the ability to convey so much without hearing their dialogue."[9] Celotta said the show's producers have no plans to release the scene with audio. While filming Jim Halpert's emotional reaction to the pregnancy news, Krasinski and director Ken Kwapis discussed the fact that Jim has been surrounded by this camera crew for the last five years, so he would be glad to share this moment with them. The moment when Jim looked directly at the camera, in particular, was meant to convey the idea that he was celebrating the news with the crew. The script did not call for tears, but Krasinski cried naturally as part of his performance.[9]
Lieberstein and Celotta originally planned to have Mose Schrute, Dwight's cousin and a popular minor character, appear in the episode along with Dwight, but actor Michael Schur was unable to attend because he was busy directing "Rock Show", the first-season finale of the NBC series Parks and Recreation, which Schur co-created along with The Office creator Greg Daniels. Instead, the writers created the role of Rolph, and several of the actors suggested James Urbaniak be cast in the role. Celotta said she intends to have both Urbaniak and Schur come back to the show in future episodes; she said of Schur, "Who knew Mose would run a show some day? We'll get him one of these days, rest assured."[9] Jennie Tan, the creator of The Office fansite OfficeTally.com, appeared as an extra during the picnic scenes; her site has grown so large she has become known by the cast and crew of the show, who invited her to appear on the season finale.[11][12] Brian Stack, a writer and actor on Late Night with Conan O'Brien and The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien, had a small role as the Buffalo branch employee who yells angrily at David Wallace. The Office editor Dave Rogers makes a cameo appearance as the volleyball player who tells Andy he is wearing expensive sunglasses.[13] After filming wrapped, the cast and crew held a 100th episode party, where Dave Rogers presented a montage of "100 Moments" of The Office, with one moment from each episode.[1]
When the Pam character discusses her impressive volleyball ability, she says she played volleyball in junior high, senior high, college and went to volleyball camps most summers. However, in the episode "Job Fair", she said her high school gym brings back memories of her faking PMS to get out of playing basketball and volleyball. Writer Jen Celotta acknowledged this was a continuity error: "Yeah, we screwed up. I didn't remember that she said that, specifically about volleyball. And we really do try to be careful about those things."[9]
The official website for The Office included three cut scenes from "Company Picnic" within a week of its original release. The first clip, one minute and fifty seconds long, is an extended sequence of company picnic scenes, including Michael talking about how excited he is to see Holly, Stanley convincing Creed to stand in his sunlight to provide shade, and Dwight and Andy mocking the Utica team by calling them "You-sucks-ti-ca!"[14] The clip also featured a brief appearance of Meredith's son Jake, played by Spencer Daniels, who has not appeared in the show since the second season episode, "Take Your Daughter to Work Day"; after he rudely and pointedly addresses her by her first name, Meredith orders him to spend the picnic locked in their car.[13] In the second one-minute long deleted scene clip, Andy yells at his volleyball teammates when they make a mistake, a Buffalo branch player snaps at his own team, and Charles makes fun of Jim from the sidelines.[15] In the third 30-second clip, Dwight bullies and pesters everyone about the final point of the volleyball game against corporate, prompting Meredith to throw the game by throwing the ball at Dwight during her serve.[16] Within a week of the original broadcast of "Company Picnic", the official NBC store website made the red Scranton branch T-shirts and black New York City corporate T-shirts worn by characters in the episode available for sale.[17][18]
The "SlumDunder Mifflinaire" sketch is a reference to the 2008 film Slumdog Millionaire; references to the film included the game show Who Wants to Be a Millionaire, the torture scenes intercut with the game show and Carell's impersonation of Slumdog actor Dev Patel's voice.[9][10][19] Before settling on Slumdog Millionaire, Michael and Holly considered writing Dunder Mifflin-themed parodies of the 1975 Steven Spielberg film Jaws and the 1985 science fiction adventure film Back to the Future.[20] While discussing the Jaws idea, they hum John Williams' Jaws "Main Title" song, substituting the famous two-note theme with the words "Dunder...Dunder..."[21] During the sketch, Michael and Holly announce the closing of a Dunder Mifflin branch in Buffalo, the second largest city in the state of New York. Alan Pergament of The Buffalo News said of the city's inclusion in the episode, "It ruined the party for the Buffalo workers but made the episode a lot of fun, especially for Buffalo viewers."[22] Holly and A.J. come from the Dunder Mifflin branch in Nashua, New Hampshire.[23]
Michael compared his relationship to Holly to that of the protagonists in the 1989 romantic comedy, When Harry Met Sally....[24] "Company Picnic" writer Jennifer Celotta said the final scene with Jim and Pam reacting to her pregnancy while the cameras film from outside the hospital room was an homage to a scene in the British version of The Office. In that scene, Tim Canterbury proclaims his love for Dawn Tinsley in a meeting room, but Tim turns off his microphone first so the cameras pick up only their reactions and no sound. Celotta said of the scene, "We are all big fans of the moment that Tim takes off his mic and tells Dawn how he feels. Such an intimate moment that, to me, it feels like it's nice to have it just be theirs."[9]
In its original American broadcast on May 14, 2009, "Company Picnic" was watched by 6.72 million viewers, according to Nielsen ratings. It was the lowest original episode rating for The Office in two years, a fact commentators said was especially surprising given that the episode was a season finale.[25] The rating was a 13 percent drop in viewership from the previous week's episode, "Cafe Disco",[26] which was seen by 7.71 million viewers.[27] It also unseated "Casual Friday", which was seen by 7.3 million viewers, as the lowest-rated episode of the fifth season.[28] "Company Picnic" received a 3.9 rating/12 share among viewers aged between 18 and 34, and a 3.5 rating/9 share among viewers between 18 and 49.[25]
Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger described the episode as "a great end to what may have been my favorite season of The Office to date." He said the episode included great laughs and sublime dramatic moments, including Michael's moment with Holly after the sketch and the silent moment in which Jim learns Pam is pregnant. Sepinwall said Jim's moment of composing himself in the hallway after calling Dwight in that scene was, "Maybe Krasinski's single best moment on the series to date."[10] Margaret Lyons of Entertainment Weekly said she had "some mixed feelings" about the episode and wished it had more from Ryan, Creed and Kelly, but she especially praised the ending scene with Jim and Pam, which she said she did not expect.[19] Dan Hooper of VH1's Best Week Ever said, "Office finale was awesome, as we expected, capping about seven straight weeks of just top-notch episodes with great character moments, a legitimately interesting plot, and just laugh line after laugh line, reminding us all [why] we spent time talking about this show every week." Hooper also praised NBC for not advertising the twist ending: "They didn’t stupidly dramatize it, and it ended up being a really nice, really fitting end" to the season.[29]
Nathin Rabin of The A.V. Club, who gave the episode a B+ grade, said it was "long on pathos and awkwardness but short on laughs", but described it as "a very satisfying way to end a very satisfying season". Although Rabin said the final scene with Jim and Pam was filmed and handled artfully, he also expressed concern that the subplot could turn into a clichéd device, and said "part of me felt it was a rather pat, heavy-handed way of ending the season on a dramatic note."[20] Will Leitch of New York magazine expressed concern about the dangers of television shows adding a pregnancy subplot, but said of the episode, "For now, we’ll bask in the happiness of two main characters who have waited a long time for it." Leitch, who called Holly the show's "most beloved guest star", also complimented the way the episode handled Michael and Holly's brief reunion: "The couple and the producers seem to have come to the same conclusion about this relationship: Holly (Amy Ryan) can’t actually stay with Michael (Steve Carell), so let’s just enjoy her while she’s here."[30] Travis Fickett of IGN complimented the episode but said it "doesn't really reach that high", which he said was disappointing following a string of eventful episodes. He praised the Holly character and the way Jim and Dwight worked so well together during the volleyball game, and although he said the final scene was a nice moment between Jim and Pam, he also said the twist was "predictable and telegraphed".[31]
TV Guide listed the final scene about Pam's pregnancy as one of the twelve top television moments from the week it aired.[32] "Company Picnic" was voted the ninth highest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 8.36 out of 10.[33]



"After Hours" is the sixteenth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 168th episode overall. The episode aired on NBC in the United States on February 23, 2012.[1] "After Hours" was written by co-executive producers Halsted Sullivan and Warren Lieberstein and directed by Brian Baumgartner, who portrays Kevin Malone on the series, marking his directorial debut.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Todd Packer (David Koechner) compete for a job. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) has to deal with Cathy's sexual advances in his hotel room. Also, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) has everyone stay late to cover for their co-workers in Florida.
"After Hours" received mixed reviews from critics. According to the Nielsen Media Research, "After Hours" was viewed by an estimated 5.02 million viewers and received a 2.6 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, marking a 16% rise in the ratings from the series low ratings of the previous episode, "Tallahassee". The episode also ranked as the highest-rated NBC program of the night.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Todd Packer (David Koechner) compete to become VP under Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) by seducing her after work at the hotel bar. For most of the night, Packer seems to be the most successful, so Dwight has Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) keep Nellie distracted while Dwight helps Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) with something in his hotel room. Gabe takes it upon himself to spike Packer's beer with his asthma inhaler, which causes Packer to vomit on Gabe's pants and leaves Dwight alone with Nellie. Dwight eventually succeeds in seducing Nellie as she asks for a key to his room. Upon kissing her and realizing that what he is doing is wrong, Dwight secretly scratches off the magnetic strip on his hotel card before giving it to Nellie, stating the seduction was only to gain approval.
In Scranton, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) has everyone stay late to cover for their co-workers in Florida, which turns into an awkward situation when Val's (Ameenah Kaplan) boyfriend, Brandon (Jerry Minor), arrives with Jamaican food Andy ordered and accuses Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) of having an affair with her, after having read Darryl's text messages to her. Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) demands that Darryl read them aloud out of voyeuristic interest. Upon hearing them, most of the staff agree that his text messages, particularly an extended ellipsis at the end of one, are suggestive of Darryl wanting to be with Val. Val protests that the idea of her being romantically involved with Darryl is ridiculous. Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) and Andy each advise Darryl on what Jim would do; while Andy suggest he wait, Pam says that if Jim had not made romantic advances while she was still engaged, she never would have ended up marrying him. Darryl follows Pam's advice and tells Val that a potential relationship is not ridiculous.
Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) confides in Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) that she is intending to stay in Tallahassee. Ryan interprets this as an invitation to hook up with her, so he attempts to seduce her by taking her to the empty kitchen to help her make a waffle she unsuccessfully ordered. They hide under a table when the chefs return. After Ryan compliments Erin, she suggests that they could become roommates in Florida and possibly start dating in six months if things go well between them. Not wanting that long timeline, he begrudgingly resorts to saying he loves Kelly.
Jim has started spending more time with Cathy Simms (Lindsey Broad) because Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) keeps trying to rope Jim into having an affair. During the night at the hotel, Cathy asks to hang out for a while in Jim's room under the pretext that the heat in her room is malfunctioning. She repeatedly makes seductive signals, making Jim uncomfortable. Stanley is no help, so he calls Dwight saying he has bed bugs. Fearing that the bugs will transfer onto Dwight himself, Dwight arrives and forces Cathy off Jim's bed so he can lure out the bed bugs with his nearly naked body. This fails to sufficiently disgust Cathy, who merely steps into the bathroom to take a shower until Dwight leaves. Cathy gets out of the shower wearing only a bath robe. After ordering some desserts from room service and asking Jim to touch her legs, he finally comes out saying that he is happily married, and does not want to be with her. Cathy gets defensive and insists that she did not have any romantic intentions whatsoever, so Jim relents, but Cathy immediately resumes her seductive technique. After Jim goes to the bathroom, he comes out to find her in only her underwear under his blanket. Fed up, he demands that she leave and lets Dwight, armed with spray chemicals, into the room. Jim claims to see a bed bug near Cathy, making her flee from Dwight's spraying. However, because of the chemicals, Dwight suggests Jim sleep in Cathy's room. Jim instead spends the night with Dwight in his room, eating Cathy's desserts and watching TV, while a drunken Nellie tries unsuccessfully to get in.
"After Hours" was written by co-executive producers Halsted Sullivan and Warren Lieberstein.[2] It was directed by Brian Baumgartner, who portrays Kevin Malone on the series, marking his directorial debut.[2][3]  The episode features a guest appearance from David Koechner, who appears as Todd Packer in the series.[1] He recently made a deal with NBC to do more episodes for the series and also possibly join the cast of series developer Greg Daniels's next series, Friday Night Dinner, an adaption of the British series of the same name.[4] The episode marks the tenth appearance of Lindsey Broad who plays Cathy, Pam's replacement during her maternity leave.[5] She appeared in a recurring role for the season, after she initially appeared in "Pam's Replacement".[5] The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Nellie establishing boundaries for flirtation, Nellie and Dwight confessing peculiar secrets to each other, and Pam and Andy calling Jim for advice, only to have Cathy answer the phone.[6]
"After Hours" originally aired on NBC in the United States on February 23, 2012.[1] The episode was viewed by an estimated 5.02 million viewers and received a 2.6 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[7] This means that it was seen by 2.6% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a 13-percent rise in the ratings from the previous episode, "Tallahassee".[7][8] The episode finished third in its time slot, being beaten by Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.1 rating/8% share and the CBS drama Person of Interest which received a 3.1 rating/7% share in the 18–49 demographic.[7] The episode beat The CW drama series The Secret Circle and the Fox drama series The Finder.[7] Despite this, "After Hours" was the highest-rated NBC television episode of the night.[7] It was also the last episode of The Office to be viewed by more than 5 million viewers until the series finale a year later.[7][9]
"After Hours" received mixed reviews from critics. HitFix writer Alan Sepinwall called it the best episode of a "disappointing" season.[10] He was mainly positive towards the focus of the episode with both story-lines in Tallahassee and Scranton taken place after hours and for the several plot lines in the episode.[10] He praised the pairing of Darryl and Val, saying that they are better matched to be the series' "new" Jim and Pam than Andy and Erin.[10] Cindy White of IGN said that the episode proved the series was "on a hot streak".[11] She mainly liked the storylines taking place in Tallahassee and said that the end of the Dwight-Nellie storyline was a "nice bit of character development".[11] She was also very positive to Baumgarter's directing in the episode, saying he "nailed" the documentary format of the episode.[11] She went on to slightly criticize the Scranton storyline and wrote that she hoped the writers would wait before putting Val and Darryl together.[11] She ultimately gave the episode a 7.5/10.[11]
Not all reviews were positive. The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt wrote that the episode was too crowded and that while all four plotlines had "potential", they weren't given enough time to develop.[12] Despite this, he did compliment the Dwight scenes, due to their ability to gain a "comic rhythm".[12] He also complimented the Dwight-Nellie-Todd storyline, saying that his decision to not sleep with Nellie was a "nicely human moment" and also wrote that the character was more grounded when he was more self-aware.[12] He ultimately gave the episode a C+.[12]
Many critics commented on the plot featuring Cathy attempting to seduce Jim.[10][11][12] White noted that, "Jim did bumble it a bit in the face of Cathy taking insincere offense at his accusation, but the outcome wasn't hard to predict. Of course Jim would stay true to his real soulmate."[11] Sepinwall noted Dwight's cartoonish behavior in the episode, although he called it a good addition to the Jim-Cathy story-line.[10]  McNutt wrote that due to the "choppy storytelling", the Jim-Cathy storyline was not able to feel awkward enough to "feel Jim's struggle".[12]


Benjamin Joseph Manaly Novak[1] (born July 31, 1979) is an American actor, comedian, and writer. He has received five Primetime Emmy Award nominations and won two Screen Actors Guild Awards.
Novak is known for starring as Ryan Howard in the NBC sitcom The Office (2005–2013), for which he was also a writer and executive producer. He appeared in the films Inglourious Basterds (2009),  Saving Mr. Banks (2013) and The Founder (2016). He made his directorial debut in 2022 with the dark comedy thriller Vengeance, which he also wrote and starred in.
Novak also appeared in The Mindy Project (2013–2016) and The Newsroom (2014), and was the creator and executive producer of Hulu anthology series The Premise (2021). He portrays Alistair Smythe in The Amazing Spider-Man 2 (2014).
In addition to his film career, Novak authored the acclaimed books One More Thing: Stories and Other Stories (2014) and The Book with No Pictures (2014).
Novak was born on July 31, 1979,[2] at Newton-Wellesley Hospital in Newton, Massachusetts.[3] His parents are Linda (née Manaly) and author William Novak.[4][5][6] He is Jewish. His father co-edited The Big Book of Jewish Humor, and has ghostwritten memoirs for Nancy Reagan, Lee Iacocca, Magic Johnson and others.[7][8] Novak has two brothers: Lev Novak and composer Jesse Novak.
He attended Solomon Schechter Day School of Greater Boston and Brown Middle School.[9] He went to Camp Ramah in New England in Massachusetts in the summers of his 6th, 7th and 9th grades.[10]
He attended Newton South High School with future The Office costar John Krasinski;[11] they graduated in 1997.[11] Novak edited one of the school newspapers, The Lion's Roar, and cowrote a satirical play with Krasinski.[12]
Novak graduated from Harvard University in 2001, where he was a member of the Harvard Lampoon. He majored in English and Spanish literature, and wrote his honors thesis on the films of Shakespeare's Hamlet.[13] Aside from the Lampoon, he occasionally staged and performed in a variety show called The B.J. Show with fellow Harvard student B. J. Averell.[11]
After Harvard, Novak moved to Los Angeles, California and began working in clubs as a comedian. His first live stand-up performance was at the Hollywood Youth Hostel on October 10, 2001.[14] He was named one of Variety's "Ten Comedians To Watch" in 2003.[15]
He was a writer for the short-lived The WB sitcom Raising Dad.[11] He performed on Comedy Central's Premium Blend and on Late Night with Conan O'Brien.[13][15]
Novak's television acting career began on MTV's Punk'd.[11] He was the lead accomplice to Ashton Kutcher on the show's second season in 2003, playing pranks on Hilary Duff, Rachael Leigh Cook, Usher and Mýa.[16]

An image of Novak entered the public domain as a stock photo and has been used on various international products, reportedly including a particular type of Calvin Klein cologne in Sweden.[17] After hearing Novak's opening joke at a comedy club, executive producer Greg Daniels decided he "wanted to do something with him."[11] Novak was subsequently cast as Ryan Howard, who is introduced on the show as a temporary employee at Dunder Mifflin in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Novak's character goes through ups and downs throughout his work career and has an on-and-off relationship with Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling).
Novak was also a producer and writer on the show; he and Kaling, Greg Daniels, Michael Schur and Paul Lieberstein were its original writers. Novak is credited with writing 15 episodes, including the Writers Guild of America nominated episodes "Diversity Day" and "Local Ad".
On July 21, 2010, news reports indicated Novak had signed a contract to remain with the show for its seventh and eighth seasons. Under the new terms, he would be made an executive producer midway through Season 7, and would direct two episodes. He left The Office after the ninth-season premiere, "New Guys", but returned to guest-star in the series' final episode. In a 2021 podcast interview on Dax Shepard's show, he confirmed that he had been offered the Season 9 showrunner position, but declined it because he decided that his "fire for the job had burned out", and it was time for him to move on to other projects.
Novak and his fellow "The Office" writers and producers were nominated five consecutive times for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series, from 2007 to 2011.

In a June 2009 interview with The Philadelphia Inquirer, Novak spoke about sharing the success of The Office with his Newton South High School classmate John Krasinski:[18]"Sometimes when this feels too good to be true, I think that if this were all a dream, that would be what should have tipped me off. I'd wake up saying, "I was in this incredible TV show and it was a big hit and the star was John [Krasinski] from high school. Isn't that weird?"Novak has had supporting roles in Quentin Tarantino's acclaimed 2009 war film Inglourious Basterds, John Lee Hancock's 2013 period drama Saving Mr. Banks about the development of the 1964 film Mary Poppins, and Hancock's 2016 biographical drama The Founder about the founder of McDonald's.
He has also appeared in the films Unaccompanied Minors (2006), Knocked Up (2007), Reign Over Me (2007), The Internship (2013) and The Amazing Spider-Man 2 (2014).
He voiced Baker Smurf in The Smurfs (2011) and The Smurfs 2 (2013).
He has starred in a few episodes each of The Mindy Project and The Newsroom, and made cameo appearances on Community and Crazy Ex-Girlfriend. He was also a consulting producer for the first season of The Mindy Project.[13]
He wrote, directed and executive-produced a half-hour anthological series, The Premise, released on FX in 2021.[19] He starred in the 2022 mystery-thriller Vengeance, which he also wrote and directed. Filming began in March 2020 but was delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic until January 2021. In May 2020, it was announced that he would write and executive-produce Young People for HBO Max.[20]
On April 11, 2013, publishing house Alfred A. Knopf announced it had signed a seven-figure, two-book deal with Novak, with the first book to be a collection of Woody Allen-like fiction stories.[21] On February 4, 2014, a book of 64 stories, One More Thing: Stories and Other Stories, was published and spent 6 weeks on the New York Times Best Sellers Hardcover Fiction List.[22]
Novak also signed a deal with Penguin's children's books label and wrote The Book With No Pictures, released on September 30, 2014.[23] As of January 2021, it had spent 174 weeks on the New York Times Best Seller Picture Books List, with 34 weeks at #1, and was at #10 in September 2020.[24] A self-proclaimed lifelong book-lover, Novak said he wrote the children's book partially because "to me, there is no more meaningful, important or exciting rule to introduce to children than the power of the written word."[25]
On November 19, 2019, My Book with No Pictures was published as a fill-in-the-blanks companion book to The Book with No Pictures to allow children to write their own stories.
On October 14, 2015, Novak released an Apple iOS app along with co-founder Dev Flaherty called The List App.[26] It was nominated for a Webby Award (losing in its category to Beme and Pocket) in 2016.[27] In May 2016, it was rebranded 'li.st' and became available on the Android platform.[28] In September 2017, it was shut down due to lack of users.[29]
Novak has a close friendship with Mindy Kaling, whom he met through writing for The Office, and called her "the most important person in my life" (on Fresh Air with Terry Gross). They dated on and off while writing and acting on the show, sometimes mirroring the on-again, off-again relationship between their characters Ryan Howard and Kelly Kapoor.[30] He is the godfather of Kaling's two children.[31][32]
Novak lives in Los Angeles.[33]
Novak also has a chapter giving advice in Tim Ferriss' book Tools of Titans.
Writers Guild of America Award for Comedy Series (2006)Nominated — Writers Guild of America Award for a Comedy Series (2005, 2007–2010)Nominated — Writers Guild of America Award for a New Series (2005)Nominated — Writers Guild of America Award for an Episodic Comedy (2005, 2007)
Nominated: Writers Guild of America Award for a New Series (2012)


"Launch Party" is the fifth and sixth episode of the fourth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's fifty-eighth and fifty-ninth episode overall. The episode was written by Jennifer Celotta and directed by Ken Whittingham. It first aired in the United States on October 11, 2007, on NBC.[1]
In this episode, Dunder Mifflin prepares for the launch of their new website. Dwight tries to outsell the website, Andy makes a move for Angela, and Michael kidnaps a pizza delivery boy (Kevin McHale).
Michael has arranged a meeting to discuss making the Quarterly Report more exciting, unaware that the office workers are more interested in the screensaver, and believes their disappointment whenever the bouncing box doesn't make it into a corner are reactions to his statements. Eventually, the box makes it into a corner, and the cheering employees leave, to his confusion.
Dunder Mifflin is preparing a launch party for their new website. Jan Levinson doesn't want to go so Michael invites Pam Beesly, who makes Jim Halpert take her place. Only after they reach New Jersey does Jim realize that Michael received an invitation to a chat room, not the actual party. Jim reveals he turned down the corporate job that Ryan Howard accepted. Michael returns to Scranton and attempts to plan a better party, irritating party planner Angela Martin, already irritable due to the death of her cat. She takes out her frustrations on fellow Party Planning Committee member Phyllis, who quits the committee.
Dwight Schrute wants to win back Angela's affection by competing against the website to see who can make more sales. Andy Bernard keeps a tally of reams sold, blowing an airhorn whenever Dwight makes a sale. Jim and Pam send Dwight instant messages pretending to be the computer system having achieved self-awareness. Dwight wins the challenge, but when he gloats to Angela she makes it clear they are broken up for good. She asks Pam to set her up with a friend of hers. Pam sends a message as the computer acknowledging Dwight as the superior being. Andy sets up a conference call with his old Cornell friends to serenade Angela with "Take a Chance on Me".
Michael realizes that Ryan doesn't respect him, and on the chat room he snaps that Dwight outsold DMI and curses at Ryan. Everyone complains that Michael confused the office's favorite pizza place, Alfredo's Pizza Cafe, with a terrible pizza place, Pizza by Alfredo. When his coupon is refused he holds the teenaged delivery driver hostage. Eventually realizing he is breaking the law he lets the kid go, then crashes the party in NYC with Dwight. Michael is cheered when a young corporate worker says they liked his rant against Ryan. When Michael points out that it was Dwight who beat the website in sales, the worker says it was funny to see Ryan embarrassed, and the two head home.
"Launch Party" was the sixth episode of the series directed by Ken Whittingham. Whittingham had previously directed "Health Care", "Michael's Birthday", "The Convention", "The Merger", and "Phyllis' Wedding". "Launch Party" was written by Jennifer Celotta, making it the sixth episode written by her.[1]
According to Jennifer Celotta, the idea for the first scene of the episode where the office workers are watching a logo bounce around a television screen, came when the writers were in a room watching the DVD logo bounce around the television screen, and were arguing about whether it would ever hit the corner.[2]
"Launch Party" received a 5.2 Nielsen Rating and an 8% Share. The episode was watched by 8.91 million viewers and achieved a 4.7/11 in the key adults 18–49 demographic.[3]
"Launch Party" received mixed reviews from critics. TV Squad's Jay Black wondered why the writers "feel the need to veer off into increasingly more ridiculous places", especially because The Office is "hailed by critics and adored by fans for its ability to find humor in the smallest pieces of real-life human interaction". Black did say that except for the kidnapping, he "thought tonight's episode was the best of the season."[4] Travis Fickett of IGN wrote that "Launch Party" was "a very entertaining episode with some terrific moments." Fickett did say that with all the hour-long episodes "things start to feel stretched and some scenes take on a sense of redundancy and certain storylines seem to peter out before they even get going."[5]



"Counseling" is the second episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office and the shows 128th episode overall. It originally aired on NBC on September 30, 2010. The episode was written by B. J. Novak and directed by Jeffrey Blitz. "Counseling" guest stars Eric Zuckerman as a store clerk, Vincent Angelo as a vendor, and Michael Schur as Mose Schrute. Evan Peters also appears as Luke Cooper in archival footage from the previous episode.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is forced to have six hours of counseling with Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) after he physically reprimanded his nephew Luke (Peters), but Michael refuses to make Toby's job easy. Meanwhile, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) attempts to finagle a promotion to office administrator and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) boycotts the Steamtown Mall after a shop owner refuses to serve him.
"Counseling" received mostly positive reviews from television critics. The episode was viewed by 7.36 million viewers and received a 3.7 rating among adults between the age of 18 and 49, marking a significant drop in the ratings when compared to the previous week. Despite this, the episode was the highest-rated NBC series of the night that it aired, as well as the highest-rated non-sports NBC broadcast for the week it aired.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is assigned six hours of counseling with Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) after he physically reprimanded (spanked) his nephew Luke (Evan Peters) in "Nepotism", but Michael refuses to speak to Toby. One hour into their session, Toby tells Michael that the hour will not count towards Michael's punishment because Michael didn't speak at all, so Michael begins telling ridiculous stories, such as being raised by wolves and getting probed by Alf. Toby pretends to admit defeat, then tries the common counseling method of playing games with the client to get them to open up more. Unaware he is even undergoing counseling, the method works, and Michael opens up to Toby about his personal history and relationships with people. At one point, he mentions seeing a baseball game with his stepfather where he was told that the team's manager deserved respect and how he never forgot that, and Toby makes an important discovery that Michael needs to be liked. Michael eventually realizes what is happening, gets angry at Toby, and insults and denigrates his counseling ability. Toby gives up and gives Michael the official form, allowing him to fill it out however he wants. In his haste, Michael accidentally checks off on the form that he is severely depressed and homicidal. Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) contacts Toby, confused by his extreme assessment of Michael. Although Michael initially blames Toby for the mishap, he turns his ire to Gabe, even making Toby laugh with his impression. Michael openly offers to return to the break room with Toby and "bang this out". At the end of the episode, they are both talking and drawing pictures.
Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) realizes that although she has her dream job of salesman, she just might not be cut out for it after all since she makes few sales and very little money. A chance visit from a vendor gives her an idea to finagle a promotion to office administrator, hopefully for some added income. She informs Gabe of her promotion "from a few months back" and tells him she has not been paid accordingly, to which Gabe promises her he will get the missing wages if she can get all of the department heads to sign off on it. While she is busy convincing everyone that she has become the new administrator, Gabe catches on that she might be lying, and confronts her about it. Using a strategy she learned from watching poker, she stands her ground against Gabe and becomes de facto office administrator.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) has decided to boycott the Steamtown Mall after a shop owner refuses to serve him, going so far as to cancel orders to businesses there, including that of the other salesmen. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and the rest of the office convince Dwight to get revenge on the shop owner by making Dwight appear to be high-class, and then having him refuse to buy from the shop, a scheme the office references from the movie Pretty Woman. Using tips from the rest of the office to make himself appear more sophisticated, Dwight, with Jim and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), return to the shop. To their surprise, the shop owner immediately recognizes Dwight even in his new attire, and explains that he did not serve him before because he was frightened by Dwight's blood-soaked hands (actually beet juice). Dwight, flustered from the truth of the situation being revealed to him, stumbles over his words before finally saying the line he had come all the way there to say, "You made a big mistake. Huge!" The group leaves somewhat embarrassed, but not before Dwight buys what he came for: a pewter wizard statuette holding a crystal ball.
"Counseling" was written by B. J. Novak, a producer and screenwriter for the series who also portrays the character of Ryan Howard on the show.[2] The entry was directed by Jeffrey Blitz, who had also directed the previous episode "Nepotism".[2][3] "Counseling" features Eric Zuckerman, Vincent Angelo and Michael Schur in guest appearances as a store teller, a vendor, and Mose Schrute, respectively. Evan Peters also appears as Luke Cooper in archival footage from the previous episode.[2] With the seventh season of The Office being Carell's last, the writers decided to divide the season into two distinct halves; the first half would "celebrate Carell's finale year and highlight different actors on the show", whereas the second half would focus on his departure and the search for a new manager. As such, "Counseling" was one of the first episodes of the season to specifically highlight other characters, in this case Lieberstein's character, Toby.[4]
The Season Seven DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Stanley discussing boycotting Kellogg's, Dwight putting on his fancy clothing, Dwight getting his pipe from Creed, Kevin giving Dwight a tissue, extended footage of Michael's counseling session, Michael discussing dogs, and extended footage of Dwight in the mall.[5]
At Dwight's daycare, a poster for the American hip hop duo Insane Clown Posse is hung on the wall; however, Dwight has scribbled out the words "Insane" and "Posse" to make it fit into the daycare. In the episode, Dwight's subplot is inspired by Julia Roberts's character in the film Pretty Woman. Dwight even attempts to use Roberts's line, "Big mistake", but instead renders it as "You made a big mistake. Huge!"[6] During Michael's counseling session, he sardonically tells Toby that he was probed by ALF, the alien star of the eponymous television series. Michael and Toby later pass the time playing Connect Four. Darryl notes to Pam that he saw a TLC show about Kate Walsh's home office, and he wants one similar.[6]
In its original American broadcast, "Counseling" was viewed by an estimated 7.36 million viewers with a 3.7 rating/10% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 3.7 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[7] This marked a decrease in a million viewers and a 14 percent decrease in the 18–49 demographic from the previous episode.[8] The episode became the highest-rated non-sports related NBC program for the original week it aired and also became the twenty-first most-watched show for the week of broadcast among adults aged 18–49.[9]
Joel Keller of AOLTV called it a "vast improvement" from the previous episode "Nepotism", because he felt that "everyone at Dunder-Mifflin  [sic] Scranton acted like themselves". Keller called Toby and Michael's counseling session "great" and enjoyed the way Toby was able to trick Michael.[10] Kelly Gerlach of TV Equals enjoyed the episode and noted that it "felt like the earlier seasons" because "there wasn't forced humor, nothing made me cringe in my seat because of bad writing, and the awkward situations were written specifically to be awkward." In the end, she called the episode "decent".[11]
Alan Sepinwall of HitFix felt that the main story employed "one of the show's most reliable running jokes". Furthermore, he felt that Michael softening to Toby was an interesting element to the episode, and he wondered if "this was a one-time thing, or if Michael's treatment of Toby will be softened, even a little." Sepinwall also felt that Pam's story was the stronger of the two subplots, and felt that an office controlled by her would be interesting.[12] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode four out of five stars and called it "pleasant". He wrote that each of the three stories "weren't flat out funny" but were "enjoyable". Furthermore, he positively commented on the main plot, noting that the Michael and Toby rivalry was fun.[13]
Myles McNutt of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "C" grade. While he enjoyed the main storyline revolving around Michael and Toby and felt that it "came together both comically and dramatically at the end of the day", he felt the rest of the episode was "quite uneven" with elements that were "ridiculous", such as how Pam attained her new job. McNutt's largest complaint with the remainder of the episode was that neither ended in "a logical place"; he felt Dwight's plot featured a disconnect from the character, and that Pam's story was "lazy".[14]


Part 2
"Stress Relief" is a two-part episode of the American comedy television series The Office. It constitutes the fourteenth and fifteenth episodes of the fifth season and the 86th and 87th overall episodes of the series. Both episodes were directed by Jeffrey Blitz and written by Paul Lieberstein, who also plays Toby Flenderson on the show.
In this episode, Dwight stages a fire in the office to test the office's fire safety skills, but things go from bad to worse when Stanley suffers a heart attack, causing Michael to come up with ways to relieve stress in the office, including a comedic roast of himself. Meanwhile, Andy, Jim, and Pam watch an illegally downloaded movie at work starring Jack Black, Jessica Alba and Cloris Leachman, and Pam deals with her parents' recent argument that's caused her father to move in with her and Jim temporarily.
Both parts of "Stress Relief" originally aired together on February 1, 2009, immediately following NBC's broadcast of Super Bowl XLIII, and The Office writers and producers sought to attract newcomers to the series with the expected increase in viewership. Guest stars Black, Alba and Leachman do not interact with the regular characters themselves, but rather appear in a film within the episode. The Office creator Greg Daniels said this was done to keep the episode more grounded in reality.
The episode received generally positive reviews, with Time magazine declaring it the best overall television episode of any series in 2009. The episode is considered a favorite by many fans of the series. Many commentators particularly praised the chaotic cold open scene, in which Dwight panics his co-workers with a simulated fire as part of a twisted safety demonstration. Because it aired following the Super Bowl, "Stress Relief" was the most viewed episode of The Office with 22.9 million viewers according to Nielsen Media Research during its original broadcast. It won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series, and received another nomination for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series.
Annoyed that none of his co-workers paid attention to the fire safety seminar he gave last week, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) decides to get revenge by simulating a fire. Setting a fire in a trash can, Dwight calmly explains the proper safety procedures as the panicked employees try to flee, only for Dwight to have made the "fire" non-survivable by sealing the office exits shut and cutting the phone lines. Dwight eventually reveals it was just a "test", but things go terribly wrong when Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) suffers a heart attack and collapses in the commotion. Later that day, Dwight is subsequently reprimanded by Dunder Mifflin CFO David Wallace (Andy Buckley), and Michael strips him of his position as safety officer. 
After Stanley is released from the hospital, his doctors warn him to keep his stress levels under control. Michael arranges for a CPR training session for the employees, but they are too easily distracted and the lesson proves fruitless. The session ends when Dwight destroys the expensive CPR dummy to try and "extract the organs" for organ donation, then wears its face, earning another rebuke from David Wallace. Dwight is ordered to apologize to his co-workers and get signatures acknowledging that they forgive him, but after he openly declares that his apology is insincere and denies that he is responsible for Stanley's heart attack, they refuse to sign. With tensions running high in the office, Michael tries to calm his workers down with yoga and meditation sessions. However, Michael soon realizes he is actually the source of his employees' stress when the beeping of Stanley's stress reader quickens the closer Michael gets to him. The same occurs when Oscar holds the stress reader.
Michael, to solve the problem, organizes a comedic roast of himself in the warehouse. Dwight tricks most of the employees into signing his apology letter by pretending it is a sign-in sheet, but Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) uncovers it and refuses to sign. Each of the office and warehouse workers gleefully take jabs at Michael, who initially seems to enjoy the jokes, but grows increasingly hurt and offended, storming out of the warehouse. Michael takes a personal day, much to the concern of his employees, and spends time at a playground to reflect. Dwight manages to trick Phyllis into signing his apology letter by bribing a mailman to ask her to sign for a fake package. Michael returns to the office, where he roasts each of his co-workers with one-liners, causing Stanley to laugh heartily. Michael tells his employees that they are the reason he got into the paper business, and they applaud him.
Meanwhile, Pam Beesly's (Jenna Fischer) parents are going through a rough patch in their marriage, and Pam's father is staying with her and Jim. Pam asks Jim to convince her father to work things out. However, shortly after they talk, Pam learns her father has sought a separation. She later confronts her father about why he left her mother. When Pam returns to the office, she tells Jim her father left because Jim told him how much he loves Pam, causing him to recognize his own lack of love for his wife in comparison. Pam comes to terms with the separation and tearfully embraces Jim. As this goes on, they view a pirated movie titled Mrs. Albert Hannaday with Andy Bernard (Ed Helms). The film stars Jack Black, who is engaged to a character played by Jessica Alba, but falls in love with her elderly grandmother, played by Cloris Leachman. Andy confuses Jim and Pam's comments on her parents' situation as to the characters in the film, leading him to conclude they are "movie geniuses" finding hidden depths in the film. The movie ends with Jack Black visiting Cloris Leachman with flowers and a new walker, only to discover her affair with another young man.
"Stress Relief" was directed by Jeffrey Blitz and written by Paul Lieberstein, who also plays Toby Flenderson on the show. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on February 1, 2009, immediately after the broadcast of Super Bowl XLIII. NBC decided to air The Office after the Super Bowl, rather than another show, due to positive feedback the series received from short promo commercials it aired during the 2008 Summer Olympics.[2] Some criticized the decision to place an episode of The Office, an already established NBC series, after the Super Bowl instead of a new show, and suggested it meant the network lacked any exceptional new material.[3][4]
In writing the script for the episode, Lieberstein said he sought to appeal to newcomers to the series and attract them to the show, without alienating regular viewers: "We wanted to do a stand-alone comedy episode that could bring people in."[5] Lieberstein said the script drew less attention to long-standing story arcs, which new viewers would not understand.[2][5] Lieberstein said, "It almost had an air of a pilot in a way, where we had to reintroduce everything. We wanted it to be extremely funny and extremely funny up front."[2] The Office creator Greg Daniels said he felt the episode had to focus on physical comedy and easily accessible set pieces. Daniels said, "I looked at all the shows that followed the Super Bowl in years past and I feel that a comedy would be a good choice in the current climate. People want to laugh so we're trying our best to supply some laughs."[2] Actor Rainn Wilson said of the episode, "It's a great opportunity for people to revisit the world of The Office and hopefully get into our style of comedy."[6]
The two parts of "Stress Relief" ran an hour long (including commercials), compared to the typical half-hour length of most The Office episodes. Since the end of the second season, the series had begun occasionally showing longer episodes (which they dubbed "super-sized") on special occasions.[2][7][8] Unlike other episodes of The Office, "Stress Relief" included an extended main title sequence that included the names and images of the entire supporting cast of the series, in order to afford them recognition in anticipation of the high post-Super Bowl viewership.[7][9][10] The opening scene, in which the characters frantically scramble to escape the Dunder Mifflin office due to what they believe is a fire, took about a day-and-a-half to shoot. It took much longer than the average 45 minutes of shooting time for a scene of that length due to the amount of stunt work involved.[11] Due to the pressure of following the Super Bowl, actress Jenna Fischer said, "I don't think we've ever worked so hard on an episode in the history of our show."[12] The Office actor and writer B. J. Novak, who did not appear in "Stress Relief", said of the episode, "It's awesome. After this airs, people are going to refer to the Super Bowl as the Pre-Office Football Spectacular."[13]
In anticipation of particularly high viewership due to the Super Bowl, NBC officials encouraged The Office producers to feature celebrity guest appearances in the episode. Jack Black, Jessica Alba and Cloris Leachman all made guest appearances in "Stress Relief" as a result. However, they do not interact with the cast and characters of The Office, but rather appear separately in a bootleg film called Mrs. Albert Hannaday, which the characters watch within the episode.[9][14] Greg Daniels said this was done because it "helps keep the show grounded and less like I Love Lucy".[14] Lieberstein also said the casting decision made sense because, "If we're just casting some salesman that comes into the office and it's Jack Black, it's hard to believe that."[6] Steve Carell said of Leachman's performance, "She is that extra seasoning. That extra spice to the pot that makes for a delicious comedy gumbo."[12]
Just before Dwight starts his fire simulation, he said his co-workers previously failed to listen because he made a presentation on the computer program Microsoft PowerPoint, of which he said, "PowerPoint is boring".[15] Michael refers to Barack Obama, the first African American president of the United States, to Stanley while he is suffering a heart attack by shouting, "Stanley! Barack is president! You are black! Stanley!"[7] A deleted scene further addresses Obama's election, with Michael praising the choice and Darryl, with Darryl half-jokingly telling the white office workers what will change for them (they no longer have to pretend to like jazz, and Morgan Freeman won't get any more acting work because "he's more for you guys"). Michael calls an employee from the Red Cross, an international humanitarian movement, to conduct a lesson about CPR. The instructor suggests they pump the heart to the tune of "Stayin' Alive", a disco song by the pop band, the Bee Gees, but Michael mixes the song up with "I Will Survive" by Gloria Gaynor.[15] At the end of the lesson, Dwight cuts the face off the CPR dummy and places it on his face in the manner of Hannibal Lecter, a fictional cannibalistic serial killer who cut the face off a man and wore it as a mask in the 1991 thriller film, The Silence of the Lambs.[8][9][15] Watching Mrs. Albert Hannaday, Andy says the Cloris Leachman character was originally supposed to be played by the much younger actress, Nicole Kidman, and the last-minute replacement prompted a minor overhaul in the film's script.[9] The songs "You Make My Dreams" by Hall and Oates, "All Out of Love" by the soft rock duo Air Supply, "Have a Little Faith in Me" by singer-songwriter John Hiatt, and "Lady" by Little River Band play during scenes in Mrs. Albert Hannaday.[16][17]
Michael describes the roast as an event in the style of televised comedy specials that air on the cable network, Comedy Central.[16] In describing the upcoming roast, Michael says he plans to call YouTube, an online video sharing website, to record the event.[7] During the roast, Pam says Michael's penis is so small, "If it were an iPod, it would be a Shuffle", a reference to the smallest of the Apple Inc. portable media player brands.[15] Kelly said she would rather kiss Lord Voldemort, the hideous antagonist of the Harry Potter novels and films, than Michael.[16] Andy sings a song about Michael, "What I Hate About You", to the tune of the rock song by The Romantics, "What I Like About You".[16] Angela makes a joke, "If you put sunblock on a window, you might be Michael Scott", which is modeled after the "you might be a redneck" one-liner jokes by comedian Jeff Foxworthy.[8] While roasting his co-workers at the end of the episode, Michael says to Andy, "Cornell called and they think you suck", a reference to Cornell University, the Ithaca, New York college Andy attended.[9]
In its original American broadcast on February 1, 2009, "Stress Relief" was viewed by 22.9 million viewers in 13.34 million homes, according to Nielsen Media Research, making it the most watched episode of The Office and the only episode to reach over 20 million viewers. The episode drew a 10.6 rating and 14.46 million viewers between the ages 18 and 49. It more than doubled the show's previously highest rating in the age group, and constituted the largest 18–49 rating for an NBC entertainment telecast in four-and-a-half years, since the tenth season finale of the medical drama series ER on May 13, 2004. An estimated 37.7 million viewers watched at least six minutes or more of "Stress Relief".[18] As expected, The Office benefited highly from following the broadcast of Super Bowl XLIII, which was seen by 98.7 million average viewers, making it the most watched Super Bowl in history at the time.[18][19]
"Stress Relief" received generally positive reviews. Time magazine named it the best overall television episode of any series in 2009.[20] "Stress Relief" was voted the third highest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 8.89 out of 10.[21] Stanley's heart attack in response to Dwight's fake fire drill ranked number 10 in phillyBurbs.com's top ten moments from the fifth season of The Office.[22] Many critics particularly praised the opening scene, in which Dwight panics his co-workers by simulating a fire. The sequence included scenes such as Kevin looting a vending machine amid the chaos, Michael throwing a nearby projector out of the conference room window to call for help, Oscar's legs crashing through the ceiling as he tries to crawl out, Angela tossing her cat through an open ceiling tile only for it to fall through another tile, Jim and Andy using the copier as a battering ram, and the latter's reaction to a series of popping caps: "The fire is shooting at us!"[7][15][17]
"Beyond the brilliant opening, the show featured a little bit of everything that makes The Office so wonderful, in a way that didn't really require previous knowledge to appreciate, but that also didn't spoon-feed things in a way that would annoy the veteran audience."
Alan Sepinwall  The Star-Ledger[7]Alan Sepinwall, television columnist for The Star-Ledger called it a "balls to the wall, gut-busting, amazing Office episode",[7] and called the fire opening scene "not only the best Office pre-credits sequence ever, but an all-time sitcom classic". Sepinwall said "Stress Relief" was accessible to newcomers and regular viewers, and displayed both the comedic and human sides of the characters. He said the only drawback of the episode was the Mrs. Albert Hannaday subplot, which he felt was an unnecessary gimmick added solely to accommodate the guest stars.[7] TV Guide writer Shahzad Abbas wrote, "This was one of my favorite episodes ever. It had me laughing the whole way through." Abbas particularly praised the fire opening scene and the final scene in which Michael insults everybody, which he called "a very satisfying ending to the roast saga". He called the Black/Leachman romance "creepy and hilarious", but described the Jim and Pam romance subplot as the weak link of the episode.[15]
David Krone of the Los Angeles Daily News said although he had mixed feelings about the fifth season so far, he found "Stress Relief" to be "one of the season's best efforts". Krone specifically praised the Jim and Pam subplot and Dwight's character, adding, "It's a pretty perfect way to unwind – or, if your team lost, to become reanimated – after the Super Bowl."[23] Rick Ingebritson of The Palm Beach Post said the episode "was funny from start to finish", particularly praising Dwight Schrute's role and the Michael Scott roast. However, Ingebritson said he was disgusted by the Leachman nude scene from Mrs. Albert Hannaday.[8] Will Leitch of New York magazine, said the episode was funny, but "curiously unfocused [like] two half-hour episodes awkwardly spliced together. He praised the Black/Leachman film, the trouble Dwight kept getting in, and the Jim and Pam subplot, which he called "a rare Pam-Jim plot point that worked". However, he called the Michael roast "yet another Michael-wanting-to-be-loved-and-still-be-the-Boss subplot that takes over the second half".[9]
Not all reviews were positive. Entertainment Weekly writer Whitney Pastorek said the episode started strong with the fire scare scene, but "tapered off into a disjointed plot" that she felt would not win new viewers. She said many jokes went too long and lost momentum, but nevertheless wrote "a lot of the episode’s humor was engaging and smart".[17] Lorenzo Perez of The News & Observer said the Pam subplot was "overworked" and lacked impact, and the Dwight character was over-the-top, proving The Office writers clearly have no idea how to rein him in. Perez also expressed doubt the show would attract a new audience because it ran too late into the night following the Super Bowl. However, Perez said he enjoyed the Black/Leachman cameos.[16] Terry Morrow of the Knoxville News Sentinel said, "This particular visit to The Office doesn't pop like most episodes". Morrow praised the Black/Leachman film, but said, "To be upstaged by a B-plot, one not involving the show's main characters at all, is a bit of a misdirection the show doesn't need in a post-Super Bowl time slot."[24] USA Today critic Robert Bianco said the plot was extremely thin and the Black and Leachman cameos were humorless and grotesque. Bianco wrote, "Unfortunately, in an hour you get at most a handful of funny moments. So if you want funny from a comedy, look elsewhere."[25]
Jeffrey Blitz won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series for "Stress Relief".[26][27] Dean Holland and David Rogers were also nominated for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series. "Stress Relief" accounted for two of the ten Primetime Emmy Award nominations The Office received for the show's fifth season.[28]



"Nepotism" is the seventh season premiere of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 127th episode overall. Written by Daniel Chun and directed by Jeffrey Blitz, the episode aired on NBC in the United States on September 23, 2010. The episode guest stars Kathy Bates as Jo Bennett, Evan Peters as Luke Cooper, and Hugh Dane as Hank.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, the office turns against Michael Scott when he refuses to fire the new office assistant, Luke (Peters), who has a terrible attitude and happens to be Michael's nephew. Meanwhile, after accidentally ruining one of Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) pranks, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) tries to prank Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) in return.
"Nepotism" received generally positive reviews from television critics; many commented on the episode's opening lip dub, although some noted the episode did not advance any story arcs. According to Nielsen ratings, the episode was watched by 8.4 million viewers, a slight increase from the sixth season premiere, "Gossip", and it finished second in its timeslot.
The office returns from summer with a new office assistant, Luke (Evan Peters). However, it soon becomes clear that he only goofs off, deliberately messes up food and coffee runs, and has a poor attitude that leads everyone to openly despise him. When Michael Scott (Steve Carell) steps up to defend him, it is revealed that Luke is Michael's nephew, whom Michael hired in hope that it will end the estrangement between him and his half-sister, Luke's mother. The office demands Michael get rid of Luke, but he refuses. Later on in the day, the office employees discover the trunk of Luke's car is filled with packages from the office that he neglected to send (along with Michael's rejected pants from Talbot's). Since Luke is now costing the office customers, Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) informs CEO Jo Bennett (Kathy Bates) of the situation, who sternly tells Michael to deal with the situation. During a meeting, Luke acts out by annoying everyone with a laser pointer, so Michael spanks him in front of the entire office, leaving Luke to quit and run away crying and the rest of them satisfied. Gabe assigns Michael six hours of counseling with Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) after his physical assault of a fellow employee; Michael is aghast at having to sit down with his archenemy, but under company policies the only alternative is termination.
Meanwhile, the rest of the office tells the camera crew what they've been doing over the summer. Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) started dating Gabe, and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) tries to play it cool by using his anger management techniques (some of which apparently involve Gabe getting hurt). Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) attended a corporate training class as part of the "Print in All Colors" initiative for Sabre, and is trying to impress everyone by dressing up and "sounding smarter." Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) bought the industrial park building, and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) begins a lengthy prank to overload Dwight's key ring with fake keys. Seeing Jim adding on keys, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) involuntarily laughs, alerting Dwight to Jim's prank. Though Jim tries to take it gracefully, Pam senses that he is mad at her for spoiling the prank, so she tries to make it up to him by devising a prank of her own. She enlists Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) to rewire the elevator so the buttons all do different things. To her dismay, Kevin's alterations to the elevator's 'circus board' result in Pam and Dwight getting trapped in the elevator together. Dwight also ends up peeing on the floor, as he has been continuously drinking from a hydration pack throughout the day. In the end the backfired prank does impress Jim.
"Nepotism" was written by Daniel Chun and directed by Jeffrey Blitz, both of whom had worked on several previous episodes of The Office as writer and director, respectively. It was the seventh season premiere, and the first new episode to be broadcast since Steve Carell publicly announced he would depart from The Office by the end of the seventh season.[2][3] At the time that "Nepotism" was filmed, the writers and producers had not yet determined who would replace Michael Scott as the office's manager, nor whether that character would be the primary protagonist of the show.[4] "Nepotism" features Kathy Bates, Hugh Dane and Evan Peters in guest appearances as Jo Bennet, Hank Tate and Luke Cooper, respectively.[5] It was also the first episode to feature Zach Woods as a regular cast member, although he had previously guest starred as  Gabe Lewis in several sixth season episodes.[6] "Nepotism" featured an updated opening credits sequence which more strongly highlighted the entire supporting cast, rather than just the main characters.[7] Carell and Peters had previously appeared together in Sleepover (2004).
The official website for The Office included three cut scenes from "Nepotism" within a week of its original release. In the first clip, Toby reveals that he self-published his murder mystery novel and sold four copies, but is now being sued for plagiarism, while Kevin interviews that he's decided to deliberately lie all the time about everything.[8] In the second clip, which is one minute and 17 seconds, Michael attempts to instruct Luke on how to use the photocopier.[9] In the final clip, Dwight inquires about buying a robot.[10]
During the cold open, the cast performs a lip dub to "Nobody but Me", performed by The Human Beinz,[11] with the intention of placing the video on the Internet. This refers to an Internet meme trend that started with a 2009 YouTube video released by students of the Université du Québec à Montréal, in which hundreds of students lip-synched The Black Eyed Peas song "I Gotta Feeling" in one continuous take.[7][12]
Michael claims that during his summer he caught the West Nile virus, an illness commonly transported by mosquito bite. He also claims to have watched Inception, a Christopher Nolan-directed science fiction film that was critically and commercially successful in the summer of 2010.[7] Michael alludes, however, that he may have only dreamed about watching the film, a reference to the ambiguity surrounding the movie's plot about extracting information from dreams.[13] In one scene, Darryl explains he blew out his knee playing softball over the summer and watched a great deal of the cable news network CNN, which led him to develop grave concerns about the ongoing War in Afghanistan.[11] Throughout the episode, Dwight wears a CamelBak, a hydration backpack from which the wearer drinks water through a hose.[11] When Jim comments on the outrageous number of keys on Dwight's keyring, Dwight responds by saying, "The bigger the keychain, the more powerful the man", which Jim recognizes as a quote by the janitor from the show Scrubs. After pranking Dwight, Pam declares herself the "Bart Simpson of Scranton", a reference to the mischievous protagonist from the animated comedy series The Simpsons.[7]
Luke declares himself a lover of cinema and says his favorite films are Citizen Kane, a classic 1941 film by Orson Welles, and The Boondock Saints, a 1999 crime thriller film.[14] Creed indicates he follows Luke on the social-networking website Twitter specifically because Luke does not write about the actress Betty White, who was particularly popular at the time the episode aired.[12] The same day "Nepotism" was broadcast, White appeared in the second-season premiere of Community, another comedy series on NBC.[7] While trying to recall the last time he saw Luke, Michael remembers it was the release year of Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls (1995), a comedy film starring Jim Carrey.[11] Michael has Luke pick up pants for him from Talbots, a retail store that specializes in women's clothing and accessories; this also serves as a callback to the Season 3 episode "The Negotiation", where Michael accidentally bought and then wore a women's pantsuit produced by a clothing brand called MISSterious.[15] While reflecting on how difficult it is to work with family, he wonders aloud how the Ringling brothers have managed the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus for so many years.[12] He also claims that mixing family and business is a beautiful thing by illustrating what a bad idea it would have been to have open auditions for the band Hanson.
"Nepotism" first aired on September 23, 2010.[1] In its original American broadcast, it was viewed by an estimated 8.40 million viewers with a 4.4 rating/11% share in the 18–49 demographic coming second in its time slot and improving its rating by 1.80 million viewers from last season's finale.[16][17]
"Nepotism" doesn't change the game or reinvent the wheel for the aging mockumentary, but rather offers a slightly more energetic variation on the usual formula. If anything, only the outside knowledge that the seventh season represents Steve Carell's final turn as career nincompoop Michael Scott affects the way we perceive this solid, if unremarkable entry into the series.
Kevin Fitzpatrick, UGO Networks[13]The Atlantic writer Suzanne Merkelson praised the episode, and felt the opening lip-syncing scene highlighted the talents of the entire cast. However, she said the subplots were not as strong as the main story involving Michael, which underscored the challenge writers would have in maintaining The Office after Steve Carell's departure.[11] The A.V. Club writer Myles McNutt, who was critical of the sixth season, said "Nepotism" was effective both in its main storyline involving Michael and Luke, and its B story involving Pam pulling a prank on Dwight. Although slightly disappointed that the episode did not allude to Michael's eventual replacement, McNutt said "Nepotism" demonstrated The Office would continue to be the same show even without Carell.[7] Aishini Thiyagarajan of The Cornell Daily Sun highly praised the episode, claiming it highlighted the best traits of all the characters. She especially praised the cold open and the ending scene with Michael spanking Luke.[5] Phoebe Reilly of New York magazine said the episode lacked any poor points, and said it established the season as one of "a mix of high jinks and heart".[12] Rick Porter of Zap2it described "Nepotism" as "an old-school episode" with a strong main story and subplot, and praised Kelly's new attitude following her executive training. His only criticism was that Dwight seemed too over-the-top, particularly while wielding a knife during the cold open lip dub.[14]
Kevin Fitzpatrick of UGO Networks said that this was a good episode, but not an especially important one which failed to advance any ongoing story lines. Although he called scenes like Michael spanking Luke and his defense of Luke during the meeting as "classic Scott", Fitzpatrick also said the episode does little to start establishing a proper send-off for the character's final season.[13] Time magazine television critic James Poniewozik called it "a fine but unremarkable, meat-and-potatoes Office about a Michael screw-up", which made him question whether the show could continue after Carell left. Although he complimented individual moments, Poniewozik called the cold open a "self-congratulatory, awkward [and] unearned curtain call".[18] Joel Keller of TV Squad praised the cold open, but felt the rest of the episode was extremely disappointing. Keller said few of the characters' stories about how they spent their summers stood out, and said Michael's spanking of Luke was awkward and unfunny.[15] Brooklynne Kelly Peters of Blast magazine said the episode started strong with the lip synching cold open, but that the rest of the episode was not as funny as the series often is, describing it as "mundane hilarity".[19]

"Dwight Christmas" is the ninth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 185th episode overall. The episode was written by Robert Padnick and directed by Charles McDougall. It originally aired on NBC on December 6, 2012. The episode guest stars Robert R. Shafer as Bob Vance and Mark Proksch as Nate.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) gets everyone to celebrate with a traditional Schrute  Pennsylvania Dutch Christmas. Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) fears that Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) has forgotten to include him in the new job in Philadelphia. Pete (Jake Lacy) teaches Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) about his favorite movie, Die Hard.
"Dwight Christmas" received generally positive reviews from television critics, with many noting that it resembled past Christmas episodes of The Office. The episode was also viewed by 4.16 million viewers and received a 2.1/6 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking fourth in its timeslot. The episode, however, ultimately ranked as the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
The party planning committee drops the ball on the annual Christmas party, and on the behest of Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) gets everyone to celebrate with a traditional Schrute Pennsylvania Dutch Christmas. He dresses up as the traditional winter Christmas gift-bringer figure Belsnickel, cooks German food, and plays a game similar to "Naughty or Nice". The festivities cause displeasure among all the employees except Jim and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer), who are amused by Dwight's antics. Jim, however, announces he is leaving the party early to arrive in Philadelphia for his sports marketing job. In response, Dwight repeatedly hits Jim with his switch and leaves the party angrily, after which a "normal" Christmas party is started. Although Pam tries to cheer him up, she too is saddened by Jim's absence. Jim returns later, having discovered that there is a 5 a.m. bus the next morning, and both Dwight and Pam are delighted by his return. During the party, Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) fears that Jim has forgotten to include him in the new job in Philadelphia, and gets extremely drunk. When he goes to confront Jim, Jim—not knowing that Darryl was upset—excitedly tells him that he has arranged an interview for him. Darryl, appeased, turns around but passes out and crashes down on the catering table.
Pete Miller (Jake Lacy) teaches Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) about his favorite movie, Die Hard, and attempts to recite all the dialogue from memory while an impressed Erin checks his accuracy using an online transcript. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), who is still away in the Caribbean after sailing his family's boat, emails Erin and says that he is going to stay for a few weeks. Hurt, Erin decides to watch Die Hard with Pete rather than just hear him quote it. While watching the movie, Erin begins to cry as she starts doubting Andy's commitment to her and Pete tries to comfort her by placing his arm around her, which she accepts. Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) tells Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) about the Scranton Strangler case he was on. After boring her for what is implied to be several hours, she hushes him and gently kisses him to make him stop talking. Toby passionately kisses her back, and she reciprocates.
"Dwight Christmas" was written by executive story editor Robert Padnick, marking his fourth writing credit for the series after joining the writing staff in the seventh season.[3][4][5][6] It was directed by Charles McDougall, his first directing credit for the season. McDougal's first job for the series was directing its first Christmas episode during the show's second season.[7] The basic plot of the episode, involving Belsnickel, had originally been conceived during the writing for fourth season and was going to air as that year's Christmas installment. However, the 2007–08 Writers Guild of America strike halted production, and the unfinished script was never used. According to executive producer and showrunner Greg Daniels, the writing staff wanted to use the premise for many years, but could never find a right time to implement it, until an opportunity during the show's last season presented itself.[8] Before the episode aired, Kemper, in an interview with TV Guide said that "I feel like I might be expected to say this because it is the last one, but I truly love this episode so much" and that she "specifically love[s] Dwight's storyline" because "he brings in his family Christmas traditions. I've always held Dwight as one of my favorite characters and now 'Dwight Christmas' just takes it to a new level."[9] Fischer said that filming the last Christmas episode was "emotional" and regretted not being able to have Mindy Kaling, who portrayed Kelly Kapoor on the series, film a karaoke scene.[10] This is the second episode of season nine to not feature Andy or Clark. Ed Helms, who portrayed Andy, left the show temporarily in the season's sixth episode "The Boat" in order to film The Hangover Part III, whereas Clark Duke, who portrayed Clark, left for a few episodes to film Kick-Ass 2.[11][12]
On June 26, 2020, it was announced that a scene where the character Nate Nickerson appeared in blackface as the mythical personage Zwarte Piet was removed from the episode in light of the George Floyd protests.[13][14]
Dwight, who dresses up as Belsnickel, has one of the warehouse workers, Nate, dress up as Belsnickel's assistant,  Zwarte Piet, before the office vetoes the idea, feeling that it is racist.[15] (In June 2020, the scene featuring Zwarte Piet was removed from Netflix in response to nationwide protests following the murder of George Floyd).[16] Dwight presents the camera with a picture of him and his brother celebrating Christmas, and a version of the same photo decorated in the style of the 1999 science fiction film The Matrix.[17] When Jim is trying to convince the office to do Dwight's idea, he mispronounces one of the German character's names, calling him "Hufflepuff", one of the four houses of the magical school Hogwarts from the book series Harry Potter by J.K. Rowling.[18] Creed Bratton (a fictionalized version of the actual Creed Bratton) mentions that, for this years party, he wants a "Tapas Swiss Miss"-themed party, which is a combination of Spanish tapas and Swiss Miss hot cocoa.[19] Andy, via email, tells Erin that he saw the 2012 movie Life of Pi, an adaptation of the book of the same name. He also notes that he wants to see the first part of Peter Jackson's 2012 film The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey.[15] Pete and Kevin make several references to the film Die Hard by quoting lines from the movie, with Erin and Pete eventually watching the movie.[20]
"Dwight Christmas" aired on NBC on December 6, 2012.[2] In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by 4.16 million viewers and received a 2.1 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[21] This means that it was seen by 2.1 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The Office ranked fourth in its timeslot, being beaten by an episode of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.0/8% rating, an entry of the CBS series Person of Interest which received a 2.9/8%, and an installment of the Fox program Glee, which earned a 2.2/6% rating. In addition, The Office was the highest-rated NBC television program.[21] The episode ranked number one in its timeslot for men aged 18–34.[22]
The episode received largely positive reviews from television critics. Andrea Reiher of Zap2it named "Dwight Christmas" the best comedy TV episode of 2012. She wrote that the episode "was not only funny but had a huge nostalgia factor", and continued the show's trend of strong holiday episodes. Reiher also praised the episode's two subplots, writing that "drunk Darryl and Die Hard" helped produce "a classic episode of The Office that brought back the warm and fuzzy feelings of the early seasons of the show."[20]
Bonnie Stiernberg of Paste awarded the episode an 8 out of 10. Although she noted that Erin and Pete's subplot "could've easily been ripped from the season two Jim-Pam-Roy storyline", she concluded that "The Office successfully found a way to make its final Christmas count."[23] Damon Houx of Screen Crush called the episode "a really good Christmas episode" that "got [the] central three characters absolutely right". Although he wrote that the show was missing several cast members, like Helms and Duke, it was "as good as the post-Carell Office has been".[12] Cindy White of IGN awarded the episode a 9 out of 10, denoting an "amazing episode". She wrote that it "harkens back to forgotten holiday traditions of old, like good Christmas episodes of The Office". She also concluded that "the nostalgia swirling around Dwight Christmas was particularly noticeable" which she deduced was probably "a conscious effort here on the part of the writers to recapture that old Office magic and make this one to remember, and I think that effort paid off."[19]
Brett Davinger of the California Literary Review wrote that, while the episode's plot was "not particularly notable" on the surface, it manages to work "because of Rainn Wilson's commitment to it". Furthermore, he wrote that the episode concluded the first half of the season in a "respectable and respectful" manner.[17] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode four-and-a-half stars out of five and called it "a worthy extension of [The Office Christmas] tradition" and "definitely one of the best episodes of this final season". He praised Dwight's antics as well as Kevin's humorous lines.[24] Michael Tedder of Vulture awarded the episode four stars out of five and wrote that "part of the charm of this episode was that the writers didn't try to stuff it with too much plot".[25] One of the very few mixed reviews was written by Caroline Framke of The A.V. Club, who awarded the episode a "B−" and argued that "Dwight Christmas" was trying too hard to replicate the humor of the second-season episode "Christmas Party". She concluded that the episode "ranks as more impish than admirable."[18]



"Performance Review" is the eighth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's fourteenth episode overall. It was written by Larry Wilmore and directed by Paul Feig. It first aired on November 15, 2005 on NBC. The episode guest stars Melora Hardin as Jan Levinson.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) conducts job performance reviews with his employees, and struggles to get Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) to talk about their romantic relationship from the previous episode. Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) thinks that it is Friday, when it is in fact Thursday.
The episode was originally going to be about "weight loss" and be one of the early episodes of the second season. Several scenes were created due to onset accidents and ad-libbing, such as Dwight's fitness orb popping and Michael grabbing Jan's breast accidentally. "Performance Review" contained several pop culture references. It received mostly positive reviews from critics and earned a Nielsen rating of 3.9 in the 18–49 demographic, being viewed by 8 million viewers.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is giving his annual performance reviews but, instead of evaluating the employees' job performances, he asks their opinions about a phone message from his own boss, Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin). Jan's message sternly tells Michael not to bring up their recent romantic encounter when she does his performance review, but feeling their workplace standing is on the line, the employees cater to Michael's desires by telling him the message shows Jan has feelings for him. During Michael's performance review, Jan insists he remain strictly professional and present his ideas for improving business. He plunders the employee suggestion box for ideas, but the suggestions - which Jan insists he read in front of her - mostly concern Michael's personal hygiene and include a directive to "Stop sleeping with your boss". As Jan storms out of the office, Michael continues demanding to know why she will not have a relationship with him. Jan finally breaks down and vents her feelings about Michael, both positive and negative, and says she is not ready for another relationship. Michael is satisfied by the rejection, since she implied he was worth having a relationship with.
From a tense exchange with Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) realizes Dwight thinks it is Friday instead of Thursday. Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) and Jim reinforce this misconception with casual conversation. During his performance review, Dwight asks for a raise, claiming he has never missed a day of work, even breaking into the office to work on holidays. Dwight's calendar confusion continues into the following day, and so he fails to turn up for work that morning, leading Michael to comment skeptically on Dwight's claim of never missing a day of work.
The episode was written by Larry Wilmore, making it his first and only writing contribution to the series.[2] Wilmore had previously guest starred in the series as Mr. Brown, the diversity instructor who gives a presentation to the office in the first season episode "Diversity Day".[3] The episode was originally going to be about "weight loss" and be one of the first episodes of the second season aired. However, after "The Dundies" and "The Fire", series creator and developer Greg Daniels decided to hold the episode off and combine it with elements of "The Client".[4] When "Performance Review" was being formulated, Wilmore had "four different ideas that were scrunched together to make an episode".[4] One of the ideas was on a card that said "Thursday Friday". After inquiring about the meaning, Wilmore loved the idea and noted that it "would be great" in the episode and a "real funny thing to pull on Dwight".[4] Originally, the episode contained a subplot wherein Pam attempts to get a new chair approved by Michael. The scenes, in fact, were shot, but were never aired.[5]
The episode was directed by Paul Feig, making it his third episode directed for The Office after "Office Olympics" and "Halloween".[6][7] During the filming of the episode, Jenna Fischer came down with a cold. Instead of postponing, however, Fischer memorized and performed all her lines, resulting in fellow cast member Angela Kinsey calling her a "trooper".[8]
Several scenes were created due to onset accidents and ad-libbing. In the cold opening, Dwight tries to impress Jim with his recently purchased "fitness orb". Initially dismissive, Jim pops the ball after Dwight becomes increasingly obnoxious and troublesome. Before filming, the scene had been successfully rehearsed "about ten times"; each time, when Krasinski punctured the plastic, the ball slowly deflated.[4] However, when it came time to film the scene, Krasinski accidentally hit the ball "right on the seam", resulting in Wilson quickly—and dramatically—hitting the carpet.[9] In fact, several of the cast members in the background can be seen laughing, due to the unexpected nature of the shot.[5] Initially, the cut was relegated to the blooper reel, but Wilmore pleaded with Daniels to include it in the finished episode.[4] The "accidental boob grab" scene was based on a mistake made by Carell during a rehearsal. Originally, he was supposed to pat Hardin's shoulder. Instead, however, he accidentally brushed past her breast. Hardin, finding the accident "hilarious", demanded that Carell do it during the actual shooting.[10] Furthermore, several of the scenes were improvised beyond the initial lines given to Steve Carell and Melora Hardin, such as the ending wherein Michael and Jan have a discussion about Michael's flaws.[4] Wilson recounts that he had to sit at his desk for "an hour and a half" due to the ad libbing.[5]
During the suggestion box scene, Larry Wilmore envisioned Dwight as an Ed McMahon-type character, repeating everything Michael said.[4] Paul Lieberstein claimed that figuring out the logistics for the conference room scene was "the heart" of the episode.[11] Hardin recalled that it was extremely difficult to stay in character, due to the humorous nature of the dialogue and the cast members' reactions.[10] In fact, the cast broke more than usual during filming.[11] During the scene, Michael reads a suggestion from someone named Tom, who asks for better help for people with depression. After inquiring who this mysterious Tom is, Phyllis tells Michael that he worked in accounting until a year ago and committed suicide. Wilmore claimed during the DVD commentary for the episode that the writers would be bringing him back in the show's third season, in which his backstory would be explained, although this never panned out.[4] However, during the Writer's Block Q&A session at The Office Convention in 2007, the writers, perhaps sardonically, suggested that Tom's death was the reason that Ryan was brought in as a temporary worker.[12] Tom's name is briefly seen on Dwight's organization chart in the fourth season episode "Did I Stutter?", where his name is revealed to be Tom Peets.[13]
The Season Two DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Michael giving Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) his performance review, Dwight giving Jim advice for his performance review, an extension of Dwight psyching himself up in the stairwell, Michael calling Jan's ex-husband and her reaction, and Michael describing the office with a confused metaphor involving organs of the body.[14]
To summarize why he deserves a raise, Dwight utilizes a Lex Luthor quote from the "Hothead" episode of Smallville.[15] Writer Jason Kessler was tasked with searching on the internet in order to get the right line.[4] Kinsey was pleased with the inclusion of the Smallville quote.[8] In order to trick Dwight into thinking that Thursday was actually Friday, Pam and Jim discuss who Donald Trump fired on The Apprentice, which was in its fourth season at the time the episode aired.[15] Before his review, Dwight pumps himself up by listening to glam metal band Mötley Crüe.[5][11]
"Performance Review" originally aired on NBC in the United States on November 15, 2005.[16] The episode was viewed by 8 million viewers and received a 3.9 rating/9 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 3.9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[17] An encore presentation of the episode, on June 6, 2006, received 2.5 rating/7 percent share and was viewed by over 4.7 million viewers.[18]
"Miss Alli" from Television Without Pity gave the episode an "A−" rating.[15] Dan Phillips of IGN named "Dwight's First Day Late" as the tenth greatest prank on the show. He noted, "Seeing a disheveled, unshaven Dwight run desperately towards the office in hopes of saving his perfect performance record was enough to land this prank on the list despite its lack of complexity."[19] Diane Holloway of the Austin American-Statesman wrote positively of the episode, and cited it as an example of how The Office, along with My Name is Earl, has "restored the comedy hour to NBC".[20] Michael Sciannamea of Huffpost TV wrote that he "liked the idea of having a continuation of a storyline" from "The Client", but that the subplot of Dwight mistaking a Thursday for a Friday "really didn't go anywhere". He also noted that "Dwight's behavior was over the top again", a fact which "can really be disconcerting".[21] Matt Zoller Seitz of Salon named the entry the ninth best episode of the series,  praising the comedic confrontation between Michael and Jan, as well as being a "strong Dwight episode". Furthermore, Seitz praised the cold opening, calling it "a classic Jim prank".[22]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B", and wrote that the episode was "squarely invested in advancing the pieces on The Office's game board—all the while keeping its gaze fixed on the events of the previous episode". Adams felt that the A-story was largely dramatic, but was successfully balanced by the simplistic yet humorous B-story which "helps that A-story find its best beats". Ultimately, he felt that "the episode sets up a portion of the season where secrets and snooping become recurring components—fitting for a show grounded in the truth-telling conventions of documentary film."[23]
Holloway highlighted Michael's review of Angela, wherein he tells her "You're adequate", as the best line in the episode.[20] TV Fanatic reviewed several of the quotes for the episode. The site ranked Angela's monologue about how much she loves being judged, as well as Jim's revelation that Dwight thinks a Thursday is really a Friday, a four out of five. TV Fanatic awarded the conversation between Stanley and Michael—wherein Stanley tells Michael how to properly listen for subtext in a voicemail—as well as Dwight's frustration that he went out and got drunk with his laser tag team, a five out of five.[24] Wilson later claimed that Dwight's line about laser tag caused "quite a buzz" online.[5]


"Viewing Party" is the eighth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 134th episode overall. Written by Jon Vitti and directed by Ken Whittingham, the episode aired on NBC in the United States on November 11, 2010.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) and Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) invite the office to Gabe's house for a Glee viewing party. Michael Scott cannot handle the fact that the office workers think of Gabe as their boss instead of him. Growing more jealous of Gabe and Erin's relationship, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) goes to extremes in order to impress her. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) helps Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) with CeCe, much to her husband Jim's (John Krasinski) chagrin.
The episode featured several direct references to the Fox series Glee, in addition to various other cultural references. "Viewing Party" was viewed by 7.15 million viewers and received a 3.6 rating among adults between the age of 18 and 49, marking a decrease in the ratings when compared to the previous week. The episode was also the highest-ranked NBC series of the night, and it received moderately positive reviews from critics with one main detractor; many reviewers enjoyed the character interaction and development.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) becomes frustrated when Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) refers to Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) as his boss. Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) and Gabe invite the office to Gabe's house for a Glee viewing party. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) plan to have sex during the party for fulfillment of their contract. When the show starts, Michael and Gabe get into an argument over how high the volume should be. After taking turns raising and lowering the volume, Michael retreats to Gabe's bedroom, hoping that his employees will follow him there. Meanwhile, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) has been having a hard time with getting her daughter Cece to go to sleep at night, so Dwight picks her up to try to calm her down. Pam is stunned that Cece becomes completely quiet in Dwight's hands. Dwight explains that Schrutes are raised by the youngest children, so he has "been raising children since [he] was a baby."
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) changes the channel from the Glee episode so he can check sports scores. Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) asks Jim to change the channel back to Glee, but discovers that Erin had neglected to record the episode. To avoid his co-workers' anger, Jim goes into the bedroom to see Dwight holding a sleeping Cece. Angela comes in and demands that Dwight meet her outside for sex. Determined to put an end to Cece's "reverse cycling", Pam persuades Dwight to stay with the baby under the condition that Jim feeds Dwight pizza and beer while Pam goes outside to tell Angela that Dwight cannot see her.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) is growing increasingly jealous of Gabe's relationship with Erin. While observing Gabe's room, Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) tells him that a Chinese virility supplement that Gabe keeps in his room is incredibly potent. Once alone, Andy drinks the entire bottle of the supplement, which makes him intoxicated, prompting him to admit his jealousy to Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith). Phyllis volunteers to talk to Erin and find out if she is having sex with Gabe, but as Phyllis is fairly intoxicated herself, her inquiries segue into an explicit account of her sexual experiences with her husband Bob, which mortifies Erin. Andy's intoxication turns into sickness, and he ultimately retreats to Gabe's room and vomits on the bed. He is later comforted by Gabe, who plays his self-composed soundscapes for Andy.
Becoming irritated that no one joined him in walking out on Gabe, Michael goes outside and pulls the cable connection, causing it to turn off, just as the show inside was nearing its end. Hysteria erupts, and Michael becomes self-conscious over the commotion he has caused. He goes outside to fix the cable. There he is discovered by Erin, who throughout the evening has been trying to encourage Michael to bond with Gabe. Michael, still indignant over the idea that his office views Gabe as his boss, is initially irritated by her efforts, but eventually realizes that Erin views him as a father figure. He jokes around and tells her to go to her room, leading to a bonding moment between the two. As he leaves the party, Michael brings Gabe into the joke by threatening to kill him and his family if he breaks Erin's heart.
The episode was written by Jon Vitti, a long-time writer on The Simpsons. It was his first writing credit for The Office after joining the show in the seventh season as a consulting producer. It was directed by Ken Whittingham, who has directed several episodes of The Office previously.[2]
The Season Seven DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Gabe inviting Stanley to his party and Stanley's reaction, Michael making fun of Gabe and then noting in a talking head that he does not really know Gabe, Michael raiding Gabe's kitchen cabinet for additional items to add to his pizza, Michael comparing himself to Tom Hanks in the 1988 film Big and Gabe to Hanks in the 1993 film Philadelphia, Michael trying his pizza, only to spit it out, and Pam and Jim marveling at CeCe sleeping.[3]
Gabe compares the Scranton Strangler to the Waco siege; Erin incorrectly believes he is mispronouncing "wacko". Jim notes that the Scranton Strangler car chase, witnessed in the episode's cold opening, is on the same level as "Balloon Boy" and Michael Jackson's funeral.[2][4] The Glee episode viewed during the party was the season two episode "Duets".[4] When turning up the volume at the party, Michael comments, "Turn it up to eleven. Spinal Cord", an obvious mis-reference to This Is Spinal Tap. Michael comments that his favorite character on Glee is "the invalid", a reference to character Artie Abrams. Abrams is played by Kevin McHale, who appeared in the season four episode of The Office, "Launch Party", as the pizza delivery boy.[2][5]
"Viewing Party" aired on NBC on November 11, 2010.[6] In its original American broadcast, it was viewed by an estimated 7.15 million viewers and received a 3.6 rating/10 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that 3.6 percent of all 18- to 49-year-old households watched the episode, and ten percent of that demographic had their televisions tuned to the channel at any point. The night that this episode aired, the NBC affiliate in Baltimore carried the Ravens vs. Falcons NFL game, meaning that ratings for the regular Thursday NBC programming were lower than usual.[7]
Myles McNutt of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B". He compared it to the earlier seventh season episode "Sex Ed", writing that both featured "a Michael story wherein a large collection of unfortunate behaviors is capped off with a moment of sincerity"; however, McNutt criticized this narrative structure, calling it "a bit cheap".[8] Despite this, he felt that Dwight's subplot "was successful in that it stayed true to the office dynamic", and that the actual viewing of the Glee episode was a "highlight" because it showcased the characters "fall[ing] into some really fun (and familiar) tropes."[8] Bonnie Stiernberg of Paste magazine awarded the episode an 8.4 out of 10, and called it "a solid episode".[9] She argued that "it left me wanting to tune in next week and see what’ll happen next", largely because of the "surprising amount of character development".[9]
Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode four out of five stars. He was complimentary towards the main plot, and he felt empathy towards Michael because he felt that "Gabe is the absolute worst".[10] In addition, Forcella wrote that Pam and Jim's subplot "had its moments, as well", and called the scene featuring Jim feeding Dwight pizza "fantastic".[10] Not all reviews were glowing, however. Alan Sepinwall gave the episode a critical review, calling it "dreadful".[11] Although he said it was better than "Christening", he felt that "so, so much of the episode didn't work".[11] Sepinwall felt that the major problem with the episode was that it was "lifeless" and "light on jokes", and only featured "Michael being petulant and crabby for a whole episode", rather than featuring him in a character study.[11] He concluded that "Ellie Kemper and Steve Carell almost were able to save the episode in the closing moments with Erin's reaction to Michael declaring that he's not her father, [but] it came far too late in an episode that was more concerned with Andy vomit humor."[11]


"Mafia" is the sixth episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 106th episode overall. It originally aired on October 15, 2009 on NBC.[1]
In this episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) becomes convinced that an insurance salesman visiting the office is a part of the Mafia, and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) accompany Michael to a meeting with him. Meanwhile, Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner)  accidentally cancels Jim's credit card, while Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) are on their honeymoon in Puerto Rico.
It was written by Brent Forrester and directed by David Rogers. "Mafia" received positive reviews from critics and was viewed by an estimated 8.03 million viewers and received a 4.1/10 in the 18–49  demographic. It is the only episode in the series to not physically feature Jim or Pam.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) meets with a tenacious but not overly skilled insurance salesman named Angelo Grotti (guest star Mike Starr) in the office and is later convinced by Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) that he is part of the Mafia and also by the fact that Grotti's surname sounds very familiar to John Gotti. Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) tries to convince them otherwise to no avail, and later notes that since Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) are on their honeymoon in Puerto Rico, and Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) has "checked out", the "coalition for reason" in the office is very weak. Oscar calls them about the situation but Pam pointedly reminds him that they are on their honeymoon and should not be bothered unless it's a dire emergency.
Michael calls for a lunch meeting with Grotti, convinced by Dwight and Andy to meet him in a public place where Grotti cannot become violent. Dwight and Andy accompany him to the meeting, Andy disguised as a mechanic and bearing a tire iron so he can defend Michael; though this backfires on him when he was forced to try and fix a woman's car and ends up breaking it further. Michael interprets Grotti's insurance pitches as veiled threats, and frightened, signs a deal with him. However, Michael cannot afford the policy, so he calls Jim for help. Jim briefly pranks him by pretending to cut out before telling him to not call him on his honeymoon again. Michael also consults Oscar, who tells him to simply cancel the insurance, but Michael is too intimidated to do so and becomes despondent.
Discontent at seeing Michael with his spirit broken and facing financial ruin, Dwight and Andy resolve that they have to get him to stand up to Grotti. They tell Michael that Grotti was just pretending to be part of the Mafia to con Michael into a deal. Enraged, Michael calls Grotti, chews him out for his "threats", and tells him to cancel the deal. After he hangs up, Dwight and Andy admit their deception and congratulate Michael on standing up to the Mafia. Michael is too elated by his accomplishment to be mad at Dwight and Andy for lying to him, and eagerly recounts his conversation with Grotti to the rest of the office.
Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) uses Jim's office to pass gas in and eventually sets up a temporary workspace in there. Jim's credit card company calls his office phone inquiring about some unusual charges and Kevin, worried someone might have stolen Jim's card, uses one of Jim's pay stubs to give them his address and social security number. They say that there have been charges that occurred in Puerto Rico and that they will cancel his card. Kevin realizes his mistake and tries to stop them, but to no avail, and Oscar tells Kevin he just committed identity fraud. At the end of the episode, Kevin calls Pam to confirm that they do not suspect that he is behind Jim's credit card being cancelled; after Pam angrily cuts off the call, Kevin cheerfully notes "they have no idea what happened".
The episode was written by Brent Forrester, his first writing credit for the season and seventh writing credit for the series. The episode was directed by David Rogers, his first directing credit for the season and second for the series.[2] The episode originally aired October 15, 2009 on NBC as the sixth episode of the sixth season and the 106th episode of the series in all.
The episode also guest stars Mike Starr as Grotti, the Insurance salesman.[3] The plot of the episode was revealed by executive producer of The Office, Paul Lieberstein, at the Television Critics Association press tour.[4]
In its original American broadcast, "Mafia" was viewed by 8.03 million viewers, with a 4.1 rating and a 10 share in the 18–49 demographic coming second in its timeslot after Grey's Anatomy going down seven-tenths from last week's episode, "Niagara" according to the Nielsen Media Research.[5]
Dan Phillips of IGN gave the episode an 8.8 saying it was "great" and "Mafia" isn't one of the show's greatest episodes, but it is a highly enjoyable one. By the time Dwight and Andy convinced Michael to finally stand up to the pushy salesman, I realized I had been giggling practically nonstop since the episode started. It's one of those episodes that's just too silly not to love."[6] Leonard Pierce of The A.V. Club gave the episode a B saying "Overall, this was a strong if not essential episode – it didn't move any major story arcs along at all, but it was solidly funny, and proved that the show can survive taking both Jim and Pam out of the picture for a full episode".[7] Joel Keller criticized the main plot saying "It was more than a post wedding let down; it was one of the worst episodes in years"[8] The episode currently ranks 23rd on the OfficeTally's ranking list of Season 6 episodes.[9]


"Test the Store" is the seventeenth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 169th episode overall. The episode was written by Mindy Kaling, directed by Brent Forrester, and aired on NBC in the United States on March 1, 2012.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) attempts to put on a theatrical presentation to impress Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate). Meanwhile, in Scranton, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) comes to work with an embarrassing black eye.
"Test the Store" contains many cultural allusions, including several to the NBC action-comedy series Chuck. The episode received mixed reviews from critics. According to the Nielsen Media Research, "Test the Store" was viewed by an estimated 4.95 million viewers and received a 2.5 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode ranked first in its time slot and was also ranked as the highest-rated NBC program of the night.
At the Sabre store opening, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) attempts to put on a theatrical presentation to impress Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate). Dwight assigns the members of his team various tasks: Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) is to act like a hipster to make the Sabre Pyramid more appealing to other hipsters, Cathy (Lindsey Broad) is to flirt with the bloggers, Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) is to give a presentation to wow the critics, and Todd Packer (David Koechner) is to play the part of a sexual predator who "prey[s] on the trendy teenage girls who are obsessed with the pyramid"—much to Packer's chagrin. As the grand opening progresses, things begin to fall apart. Several bloggers notice Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) using his old cell phone instead of his Sabre Arrowhead phone, resulting in a reprimand from Nellie. Erin disappears with a group of seniors after Dwight drives them away, fearing their age will frighten the youth. Ryan has a panic attack and, after being consoled by Dwight and Jim — who imitate Kelly Kapoor and his mother respectively in an attempt to calm him down — leaves to go to his parents' house. Jim is forced to give the presentation, which, despite a rocky start, impresses the crowd. After the opening, Dwight is named vice president by Nellie.
In Scranton, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) tries to protect Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) from a group of kids who are throwing pinecones at her, and a young girl, Tiffany (Caitlin Williams), punches him, giving him a black eye. Andy tells his co-workers that he stepped in when a "gang" harassed Pam, and Pam plays along out of gratitude to Andy and not wanting to embarrass him. At Andy's suggestion, Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) arranges a meeting in the conference room to discuss self-defense. Andy is then humiliated when Tiffany is brought in by her mother (Tig Notaro) and half-apologizes to him and Pam. Kelly asks Toby to demonstrate how to defend oneself when being attacked by a girl, and begins physically harassing him; Andy steps in between the two to break the fight up, resulting in his other eye being blackened. The rest of the office laughs at his misfortune, but shuts up when Andy points out he got hit twice because he defended other people who were being attacked. The episode concludes with Andy noting that he took a bunch of pain medication, drank half a bottle of wine, and took his pants off, thus greatly improving his feelings as the day ends.
"Test the Store" was written by executive producer Mindy Kaling,[2] her second script of the eighth season after the Christmas special, "Christmas Wishes."[3] The episode was directed by consulting producer and series writer Brent Forrester.[2] Matt Selman and Matt Warburton, writers for the long-running animated comedy series The Simpsons, appeared in the episode as bloggers.[4] The episode also features a guest appearance from David Koechner, who appears as Todd Packer in the series.[2] He recently had made a deal with NBC to do more episodes for the series and also possibly join the cast of series developer Greg Daniels's next series, Friday Night Dinner, an adaption of the British series of the same name.[5]
The episode also marks the eleventh appearance of Lindsey Broad who plays Cathy, Pam's replacement during her maternity leave.[6] She appeared in a recurring role for the season, after she initially appeared in "Pam's Replacement".[6] The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Erin and the senior citizen that she forcibly removed from the Sabre store discussing rent payments over pretzels, Nellie and Dwight lying and telling the team that they went to church, Jim and Cathy having an awkward moment, and Stanley attempting to convince a group of bloggers that he is Al Roker's brother and Raven-Symoné's father.[7]
"Test the Store" featured several direct allusions and references to the action-comedy series Chuck, which had just finished its five-season run on NBC on January 27, 2012.[2][8] In the episode, a cut-out of Zachary Levi is used by the sales team to garner support for the Sabre Pyramid; Jim and Dwight both mention that Jim was originally supposed to dress as the titular character Chuck; during Jim's presentation, Jim mentions that the Sabre Pyramid has the capability to watch movies and TV shows ranging from "Chuck to Cars 2"; and lastly, Dwight admits to Nellie that the before-mentioned presentation could have used more Chuck references.[2]
As evidenced by the title, Sabre's Pyramid tablet makes a reappearance.[2] The device serves as a parody of several tablet computers, specifically the Apple iPad.[9] B. J. Novak described the device as "really the worst piece of technology that you've ever seen."[10] The device was created by Paul Lieberstein, who originally envisioned that the device only had the rights to the 1993 film Coneheads.[11] The concept was then expanded and changed: the Pyramid would only have the rights to Chuck and Cars 2.[11]
The episode contains several direct mentions to popular music. Nellie mentions that, when she was younger, she tried out for the Spice Girls, failing to secure a call-back for "the black one."[2] During Jim's presentation, the opening of the song "Clocks" by the British rock band Coldplay is played.[2] When pretending to be a hipster, Erin mispronounces both Coachella and Zooey Deschanel.[12]
"Test the Store" originally aired on NBC in the United States on March 1, 2012.[1] The episode was viewed by an estimated 4.95 million viewers and received a 2.5 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[13] This means that it was seen by 2.5% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[13] The episode finished first in its time slot, beating re-runs of the CBS drama Person of Interest, the ABC medical drama Grey's Anatomy, and The CW drama series Supernatural.[13] In addition, "Test the Store" was the highest-rated NBC television episode of the night.[13]
The episode received mostly mixed reviews from critics. Myles McNutt from The A.V. Club awarded the episode a C rating, noting that "'Test the Store' was just too dumb to build any further momentum; I wish I had a better word for it, but I just can't think of one." However, McNutt appreciated Jim's presentation, noting that "the final presentation was a pretty decent setpiece."[14] What Culture! reviewer Joseph Kratzer awarded the episode three out of five stars, noting that the episode fell victim to "the overall lack of focus and believability that has plagued The Office all season."[15] Jeffrey Hyatt from Screen Crave gave the episode a review of seven out of ten, noting that "The Office continues to get the comedy boost it needs from the Florida storyline." Hyatt called the scene featuring Dwight and Jim imitating Kelly and Ryan's mom as "one of my favorite moments of the season so far." Despite this, he did call the episode "uneven," noting that the Scranton story-line was "ho-hum."[12] Dan Forcella from TV Fanatic awarded the episode four out of five stars and praised Jim's presentation, writing, "Between Jim's outfit and makeup, the fact that he embraced the presentation throughout, and all of the Chuck references, I was speechless by the end of that thing."[16]
Many reviews were critical of the Scranton sub-plot. McNutt wrote that, "Andy getting hit by a girl plays into the most weak, infantile parts of his character, and making Pam his accomplice was a complete non-starter."[14] Kratzer wrote, "Don't get me wrong, the idea of Andy getting punched in the face by a female fifth grader isn't necessarily unbelievable or unfunny, it's just that it had so little relevance or realism that it was difficult to follow for more than five minutes and it constituted an entire plot line."[15]


"Gay Witch Hunt" is the third-season premiere of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's twenty-ninth episode overall. Written by executive producer and show runner Greg Daniels and directed by Ken Kwapis, the episode first aired in the United States on September 21, 2006, on NBC.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) discovers that Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) is gay. Michael tries to show Oscar that he is accepting of his sexual orientation, but only ends up insulting him. It is also revealed that after kissing Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) went through with transferring to Stamford. In addition, Pam called off her engagement with Roy Anderson (David Denman).
The episode features a kiss between Michael and Oscar. This scene was not scripted, and was an improvised moment courtesy of Carell. An estimated 9.1 million viewers watched the episode, a 23 percent increase from the previous season premiere "The Dundies". "Gay Witch Hunt" received positive reviews from television critics.
After calling Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) "faggy", Michael Scott (Steve Carell) learns that Oscar finds the word offensive because he is homosexual.  While attempting to apologize, Michael inadvertently outs Oscar to the entire office. Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) berates Michael for his behavior, after Michael's seminar on homosexuality is a disaster. When Oscar threatens to quit, Michael attempts to reconcile with Oscar, first by hugging him, and then kissing him on the lips. Oscar is given three months paid vacation and use of a company car in exchange for not suing Dunder Mifflin.
It is revealed that after their kiss, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) confirmed to Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) her intention to marry Roy Anderson (David Denman). However, a few days before the wedding, Pam got cold feet and decided to call it off. She moved into her own apartment and began taking art classes. Pam's rejection sent Roy into a downward spiral, hitting rock bottom with a drunk driving arrest. When being interviewed by the camera crew, Roy makes a vow to win Pam back.
Jim has transferred to Dunder Mifflin's Stamford branch and tries to settle into his new office. He then meets smug co-worker Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) who brags about his wild college days at Cornell University. Jim tries to target him like he targeted Dwight, but becomes scared of Andy's more violent tendencies. Meanwhile, sales representative Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) is disconcerted by Jim's constant smirks to the camera.
"Gay Witch Hunt" was the eighth episode of the series directed by Ken Kwapis. Kwapis had previously directed "Pilot", "Diversity Day", "Sexual Harassment", "The Fire", "The Fight", "Booze Cruise", and "Casino Night". "Gay Witch Hunt" was written by executive producer and show runner Greg Daniels.[1]
The kiss between Michael and Oscar in the conference room was not scripted. The scene had been shot a couple of times with Steve Carell not kissing Oscar Nunez. Then on one take, Oscar saw "[Carell's] lips coming closer and closer". Nunez recalled "I'm like, 'Dear God, he's going to kiss me.' And sure enough, he planted one on my face." The other cast members were laughing during the kiss but because the camera stays focused on Carell and Nunez, the scene was still usable.[2]
At Paleyfest in early 2007, Steve Carell later recalled that he enjoyed the episode "because it spoke to the fact that Michael is not a homophobe; he just doesn't understand the world. They are two very different things. It's not that he's intrinsically racist or homophobic or sexist, he just doesn't have a frame of reference. He's not capable of understanding. And once he does glean some understanding he misinterprets it into something altogether. But I think at least the way I feel about the character is he's a decent heart, a decent person and he's just trying his best."[3]
The third season DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode, including Karen pulling a prank on Jim by setting his dial tone to call Hong Kong, Andy comparing his jumping skills to Michael Jordan to Jim, Michael asking Pam how she is holding up since the wedding broke off, and Jan being furious at Michael.[4]
"Gay Witch Hunt" first aired on NBC on September 21, 2006. The Nielsen ratings for "Gay Witch Hunt" indicated that it was watched by approximately 9.1 million viewers, a 23 percent increase from the second season premiere "The Dundies".[5]  During its timeslot, "Gay Witch Hunt" ranked second among men ages 18–49 and 24–54, and first among men ages 18–34.[6]
"Gay Witch Hunt" generally received praise from critics. TV Guide's Matt Roush admitted that he "loved Oscar's self-deprecating reaction to his newfound notoriety".[7] Roush said that when watching Michael "you can't help but forgive the idiot, while wondering how in the world he manages to keep his job," and that the kiss between Michael and Oscar was "horrifically funny".[7] Brian Zoromski of IGN rated the episode with a 9 out of 10, an indication of an "amazing" episode. He observed that the episode's best scenes "show the impact of Jim and Pam being in different offices," and thought Andy's reactions made the audience appreciate Dwight more.[8]
Steve West of Cinemablend stated that "the balance between laughing at Michael’s ineptitude and the discomfit of Oscar was handled so deftly that it’s a wonder the show became successful when similarly great writing in Arrested Development did nothing to garner viewers."[9] For his work on this episode, Greg Daniels won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series.[10] Ken Kwapis also received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series for his work on this episode as well, but lost to Ugly Betty's Richard Shepard for his work on the pilot episode.[11]


"Christening" is the seventh episode of the seventh season of the American version of the comedy television series The Office and the show's 133rd episode overall. Written by Peter Ocko and directed by Alex Hardcastle, the episode aired on November 4, 2010 on NBC in the United States. The episode guest stars Linda Purl as Helene Beesly, Rick Overton as William Beesly, Robert Pine as Mr. Halpert, Perry Smith as Betsy Halpert, Bobby Ray Shafer as Bob Vance, and Peggy Stewart as Sylvia.
The series, a mockumentary, depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Pam (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) baby, CeCe, is christened and Michael Scott (Steve Carell) invites the entire office to celebrate. Michael joins a church group of high school graduates on a mission to Mexico, with Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) following along to impress Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper).
Since the seventh season of The Office focused on Michael's departure, the producers wanted to showcase the ensemble cast in various episodes; "Christening" dealt with Pam and Jim. The episode was watched by 7.65 million viewers and received a 3.8 rating among adults between the age of 18 and 49, marking a slight drop in the ratings when compared to the previous week. The episode received mixed reviews from critics; while a few enjoyed the episode, several felt that the main story was unfunny and forced. Cindy White of IGN even called it one of the worst episodes of The Office to air.
Pam (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) daughter Cece is being christened, and Michael Scott (Steve Carell) has invited all the members of the office to the service, much to their disappointment. However, Michael's joy is soured when he finds out he is not Cece's godfather. During the service, Cece's dress is ruined when Jim changes her diaper. Jim scrambles to replace the gown, and Cece is eventually baptized in an Arcade Fire T-shirt he found in the back of his car. After the service, the minister announces there will be a reception hosted by Jim and Pam, who panic because the reception was for family only and they are not prepared for so many guests. Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) hesitates to enter the church throughout the service. He explains that he has a history between himself and "The Big Man". Finally, Toby enters the church after the ceremony. He looks at the crucifix and asks, "Why you always got to be so mean to me?"
At the reception, food quickly runs out, and Cece goes missing after Jim asks Pam's grandmother Sylvia (Peggy Stewart) to watch over her. Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) had been showing a disturbingly intense interest in Cece, so after finding out from guests that Cece was last seen with a "short blond woman", Jim thinks  Angela has kidnapped Cece, and calls her out as she is leaving. Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) attacks Angela's purse, only for Jim to realize that Pam's mother Helene (Linda Purl) had Cece (though Angela has taken all of the scones).
Michael is inspired by the fellow churchgoers and, following inappropriate comments from the rest of the office staff, angrily lashes out at them for being disrespectful. After learning that the church's youth ministry is going to Mexico to help build a school, Michael decides to go with them as they leave. The other employees try to talk him out of it, but Michael refuses. Just before they leave, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) boards the bus with him in an attempt to impress his ex-girlfriend Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper). Both of them, as well as one boy in the Youth Ministry, get cold feet 45 minutes into the trip, and force the bus to stop. Michael, Andy, and the boy then have Erin drive them home.
The episode was written by Peter Ocko, his first writing credit for The Office since joining the staff in its seventh season as a co-executive producer. It was directed by Alex Hardcastle, the first episode of The Office he directed.[2] Due to the fact that the seventh season of The Office was Carell's last, the writers decided to divide the season into two distinct halves; the first half would "celebrate Carell's finale year and highlight different actors on the show", whereas the second half would focus on his departure and the search for a new manager. As such, "Christening" was written to specifically highlight "potential heirs to the throne", in this case Fischer and Krasinski's characters, Pam and Jim.[3] The episode guest stars Linda Purl as Helene Beesly, Rick Overton as William Beesly, Robert Pine as Mr. Halpert, Perry Smith as Betsy Halpert, Bobby Ray Shafer as Bob Vance, and Peggy Stewart as Sylvia.[2]
Within a week of its airdate the official website of The Office released two deleted scenes. In the first 46-second clip, Angela, Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling), Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez), and Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) discuss their feelings about having children.[4] In the second 75-second clip, Jim asks Michael to take a picture of his family, Jim and Pam complain to the camera about the uninvited guests, and Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) and Ryan talk about their volunteer past.[5] The season seven DVD contains several more deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Jim and Pam discussing the situation surrounding the reception, Dwight placing his business card in the books in the church's pew, Jim and Pam discussing naming CeCe and thanking their friends and family for coming.[6]
During the cold open, Kelly plays a "your mom" joke on Pam. Michael initially thinks that he is CeCe's godfather, and impersonates Marlon Brando's character Don Corleone in the Godfather movies. During this scene, Michael also references Robert De Niro's famous line "You talkin' to me?" from the 1976 film Taxi Driver. Jim wraps CeCe in an Arcade Fire shirt, a reference to the Canadian indie rock band. Pam references the miracle of Jesus feeding the multitude, claiming that she and Jim are "gonna need a loaves and fishes kind of miracle to feed" all their guests.[7] Michael defends the churchgoers, and claims that the office members are being catty like the titular antagonists from the 2004 comedy film Mean Girls. Erin listens to A Prairie Home Companion hosted by Garrison Keillor.[7]
"Christening" first aired on NBC on November 4, 2010.[8] In its original broadcast, it was viewed by an estimated 7.65 million viewers and received a 3.8/10 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[9][10]  This means that it was seen by 3.8 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a seven percent drop in the ratings from the previous episode, "Costume Contest".[9][11] "Christening" was the thirteenth most-watched scripted show for the week of broadcast among adults aged 18–49.[12]
The episode received mixed reviews, with one calling it one of the worst episodes of The Office to air. Myles McNutt of The A.V. Club wrote that his favorite element of the episode concerned Toby and his relationship with God, but he was slightly critical of the "A-story", calling it "inert".[13] Despite this, McNutt felt that the episode portrayed Michael as "a flawed, yet normal, man".[13] He felt that the episode, like the sixth season episode "Scott's Tots", illustrated that Michael was still "searching for his identity despite being over 40".[13] He ultimately gave the episode a "B+".[13] Joel Keller of AOL's TV Squad praised Michael's maturity in the episode, saying "even when we get an episode that didn't quite hit the mark, like last night's, the maturing of Michael still makes the episode interesting to watch."[14]
Margaret Lyons of Entertainment Weekly was more critical, referring to it as "forced, off pitch, and strenuously unfunny".[15] She was also critical of Michael's interaction with the youth group, writing that it "didn't add any development to his character or to the show's broader arcs; it just seemed weird, and not that humorous."[15] Despite this, she praised the cold opening, featuring Pam lecturing the office on proper hygiene.[15] HitFix reviewer Alan Sepinwall called the episode "spectacularly unfunny" and criticized the writers for using Michael's loneliness as a joke instead of taking it seriously like they had in the fourth season episode "Money".[16] Despite this, he complimented Lieberstein's performance as Toby while he was questioning God.[16]
While reviewing the seventh season, Cindy White of IGN said that the episode proved to fans that Jim and Pam dragged the series at times.[17] She wrote that the episode was "one of the worst of the series"—noting that only the sixth season clip show "The Banker" was worse—and blamed it on the writers, who she said "have no idea what to do with [Pam and Jim] anymore".[17]



"Sexual Harassment" is the second episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's eighth episode overall. The episode was written by B. J. Novak and directed by Ken Kwapis. The episode first aired in the United States on September 27, 2005, on NBC. "Sexual Harassment" saw the first physical appearance of recurring character Todd Packer (played by David Koechner) after first being heard through a phone call in the first episode.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is concerned when he believes Dunder Mifflin is targeting him for sexual harassment training. Meanwhile, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) anxiously awaits the arrival of her mother, and Michael's obnoxious friend Todd Packer (David Koechner) spends the day in the office.
Novak was inspired to write the episode after attending an NBC sexual harassment seminar that the cast and crew had to attend before the series began. Many jokes and personal experiences involving sexual harassment were added into the script. This episode aired with a warning that it contained adult content and subject matter, which is rare for a network comedy. Novak explained that he had to fight NBC to get the word "boner" on the air. "Sexual Harassment" received moderately positive reviews from critics. The episode was viewed by 7.13 million viewers.
Michael Scott's (Steve Carell) "best friend forever" Todd Packer (David Koechner) offends the staff with crude gossip about an upper management scandal. Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) informs Michael that he will conduct a review of the company's sexual harassment policies because the CFO resigned after allegations made by his secretary.  Michael's indignation that this will put a damper on his easygoing office environment rises to outrage when he learns that the corporate headquarters is sending down a lawyer to talk to him. Michael and the warehouse staff mock the sexual harassment video, but the crude remarks come to a screeching halt when Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) and the lawyer arrive from Corporate.
While Michael angrily announces that he can no longer be friends with his staff and that he will never tell another joke again, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) goads Michael into breaking his vow immediately, to the approval of Packer. Michael's attitude suddenly changes when he realizes that he is not in trouble, and that the lawyer's job is to protect him. After Packer tells a crude joke at the expense of Phyllis, Michael defends her, telling the entire office that he finds Phyllis attractive and that the only thing he worries about when he is near her "is getting a boner".
Meanwhile, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) waits with anticipation for her mother (Shannon Cochran) to arrive from out of town. Pam's mother arrives and asks in whispers (shushed by an embarrassed Pam), "Which one is Jim?" Michael stops Packer when he tries to share another inappropriate joke and concludes with his misguided thoughts on sexual harassment.
"Sexual Harassment" was written by B. J. Novak, who also acts on the show as Ryan Howard. The episode was the third entry of the series directed by Ken Kwapis.[2] Kwapis had previously directed "Pilot" and "Diversity Day".[3] The inspiration for the episode was the NBC sexual harassment seminar that the cast and crew had to attend before the series began.[4] Having both worked in office environments prior to filming The Office, Jenna Fischer and Angela Kinsey both noted that on the days of sexual harassment seminars, they would be harassed by their co-workers as a joke. This experience was added to the script for the episode.[5] "Sexual Harassment" introduces Michael's catchphrase "That's what she said," which writer B. J. Novak says was something he heard repeated in college. The "What has two thumbs and X? This guy" joke also comes from Novak's college days.[6] Jenna Fischer later revealed that a good majority of Dwight's exchange with Toby about female anatomy was improvised.[7]
When it came time to cast Todd Packer, the crew's first choice was David Koechner, who had starred alongside Carell in the hit 2004 comedy movie Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy. Production for the episode had to be delayed so that Koechner could be secured for the part. Novak noted that Koechner was one of the few actors who was "talented enough to make Steve Carell break up on set", a feat that he notes was "worth" the delays.[8]
When deciding what car Packer would own, writer B. J. Novak wanted to use a Mustang, but none were available. Producer Kent Zbornak decided to get Packer a red Chevrolet Corvette, which Novak now admits is "even better".[9] This episode aired with a warning that it contained adult content and subject matter, which is rare for a network comedy. Novak explained that he had to fight NBC to get the word "boner" on the air because the replacement—"schwing"—did not have, according to Novak, "the same redemption for Michael at the end." The disclaimer was a compromise. A station in Kentucky nevertheless refused to air this episode.[10] Pam's mother was played by Shannon Cochran in this episode of the series, in the first appearance of the character at this point in the show.[2] Cochran was unable to return to play the character for the season six episode "Niagara", due to scheduling conflicts with a year-long theater contract, and was thus replaced by Linda Purl.[11]
Michael forwards Jim a joke chain-email entitled "Fifty Signs Your Priest Might Be Michael Jackson". Michael later compares the members of the office to the cast of Friends, saying that he is both Chandler Bing and Joey Tribbiani and Pam is Rachel Green. He claims that Dwight is Cosmo Kramer, failing to realize that he is a character in the sitcom Seinfeld and not Friends. Todd Packer's license plate reads "WLHUNG", a reference to a large penis, but Ryan interprets it to mean he is a fan of singer William Hung. Darryl asks whether Michael got his pants at "Queers R Us", a reference to Toys R Us. The episode is the first to feature what would become Michael's catchphrase: "That's what she said."[12]
"Sexual Harassment" originally aired on NBC in the United States on September 27, 2005.[13] The episode was viewed by 7.13 million viewers.[14] The episode ranked as the sixty-third most-watched episode of television for the week it aired.[14] An encore presentation of the episode, on May 31, 2006, received 2.2 rating/6% share and retained 100% of its lead-in viewership from My Name is Earl among 18- to 49-year-olds. The encore presentation was viewed by over 4.5 million viewers.[15]
"Sexual Harassment" received moderately positive reviews from critics. Michael Sciannamea of TV Squad wrote that the episode "was OK, nothing great." Sciannamea went on to explain that the "subject was funny, but I thought the writers were trying too hard to push the envelope", making the episode "uneven".[16] "Miss Alli" of Television Without Pity gave the episode a "B+" grade.[12] Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B−" and called it "a slightly above average episode", but that its greatest success was an ability to reach "some of its greatest heights on a moment-by-moment basis", similar in style to vignettes.[17] Adams was slightly critical of the main plot, noting that the show had "difficulty maintaining the comedic momentum", but he reasoned that this was probably largely due to "Michael-on-defense" being a "difficult character to write", because "there aren’t many good ways of displaying his humanity while he’s also fighting for the right to be an asshole."[17]
TV Fanatic reviewed several quotes from "Sexual Harassment", and rated several of Todd Packer's lewd jokes, as well as Michael's "You wouldn't arrest a guy who was just passing drugs from one guy to another" monologue 5 out of 5.[18] Entertainment Weekly named Michael Scott's line, "Toby is in HR, which technically means he works for corporate. So he's really not a part of our family. Also, he's divorced, so he's really not a part of his family," one of "TV's funniest lines" for the week ending October 3, 2005.[19] Dan Phillips from IGN named "Michael's Boner" the tenth most awkward moment of the show, noting that, "The camera holds the others' reactions just long enough to drive home the awkwardness of the scene, making you want to crawl inside of a hole along with the rest of the cast."[20]

Charles Brendan Grandy (born March 5, 1974) is an American stand-up comedian, television writer and producer. He began his career on the television series The Daily Show with Jon Stewart, Saturday Night Live,  The Office, and Guys With Kids. Grandy has had a string of collaborations with actress and producer Mindy Kaling through The Mindy Project,  Champions, Four Weddings and a Funeral, and The Sex Lives of College Girls. He is the son of former Love Boat star turned politician Fred Grandy.
After working as a stand-up comedian,[2] Grandy turned to television writing and became a writer on Jon Stewart's The Daily Show in 2001. After his Daily Show stint, Grandy became a writer and producer on Saturday Night Live, where he worked until 2008. He worked on the Weekend Update sketch.[1] In the same year, he joined the writing staff of the fifth season of the American version of The Office. At the beginning of the sixth season he became a co-producer and by the time the show entered its seventh season, he had become a supervising producer of the series.[3] After the cancellation of his show, Guys With Kids, he joined his former Office cohort, Mindy Kaling, on the second season of her show, The Mindy Project, as a writer and co-executive producer. In 2018, Grandy and Kaling created the NBC show Champions.[4] He served as an executive producer on Kaling's 2019 miniseries Four Weddings and a Funeral.[5]
He is a writer for The Sex Lives of College Girls, another Kaling production and is credited with writing two episodes.
Grandy married Sage Davis in July 2004.[1] He is the son of actor and politician Fred Grandy and his first wife Jan (née Gough); his parents divorced in 1983. Grandy graduated from Harvard University.[1][6]
Grandy has won two Primetime Emmy Awards, one for The Daily Show the other for Saturday Night Live.[7] In 2009 he received two Writers Guild of America award nominations, one for the fifth season of The Office and another for writing the episode Broke.[8]


"Pool Party" is the twelfth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 164th episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on January 19, 2012. It was written by Owen Ellickson and was directed by Charles McDougall. The episode guest starred Lindsey Broad and Eleanor Seigler.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Robert California (James Spader) decides to sell his mansion following his divorce and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) suggests that he have an office pool party. There, Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) tries to make Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) jealous by flirting with Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson). Meanwhile, Robert gives everyone a tour of his massive home.
"Pool Party" received mostly mixed reviews from critics, with many criticizing the episode's lack of a finite plot. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Pool Party" drew 6.02 million viewers and received a 3 rating/7% share in the 18–49 demographic, marking a slight increase from the previous episode, "Trivia". The episode ranked third in its timeslot, and was the highest rated NBC series of the night.
After Robert California (James Spader) is forced to sell his mansion at the behest of his ex-wife following his divorce, Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) suggests that he have an office pool party. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) takes his girlfriend Jessica (Eleanor Seigler) to the party and brings an engagement ring his Jessica-approving mother gave him, hoping to propose. The ring goes missing from Andy's pants and he is horrified that he cannot find it. Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) and Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) later find the ring and decide, based on the superstition of finding a lost ring, that it must be destroyed, setting it in the pool atop a tiny pyre.
Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), having been told by Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) that Andy followed her home after the Christmas party, decides to make Andy jealous by flirting with Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson). Dwight initially refuses, but, after realizing that Erin's choosing him as her co-conspirator is flattering to his attractiveness, agrees to help. The two flirt outrageously whenever Andy is close by, but Andy does not notice. To ensure Andy's attention, Erin and Dwight challenge Andy and Jessica to a series of chicken fights in the pool. After several defeats, Erin is so determined to win a match that she pushes Dwight to the point where he passes out in the water, ending the game. In a final attempt to make Andy jealous, Dwight tells Andy he wants to pursue a romance with Erin but wants to avoid an "Angela kind of situation" between them. Andy assures Dwight that he and Erin are through but, at the mention of Dwight having sex with Erin that very night, he balks and suggests that Dwight take things slowly instead, leading Dwight to pointedly tell him "You're an idiot." Erin later swims up to Andy with the lost ring, having recognized the Bernard family seal. Andy admits that he has doubts about proposing to Jessica, making Erin very happy.
While most of the employees are congregated in the pool area, Robert gives some of the guys - Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods), Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez), and Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) - a tour of his massive home, spending most of the time mournfully describing how it was intended to be the location for wild Bacchanalias. Ruing that his wine cellar will only "go to the lawyers" if left undrunk, he opens it to those at the party, who proceed to get drunk with him. Oscar bonds with Toby after he notices Toby's great wine choice, though Toby just picked it randomly. Toby plays along, glad to be making a friend, but laments the consequences he will later have to face. Jim had intended to make a token appearance at Robert's party and quickly return home to his wife and kids; however, Robert, sensing his reluctance to be there, insists that Jim stay for the duration of the tour; in order to punish him for laughing at an inopportune moment earlier that day as Robert had complained about having to sell his house. Gabe and Ryan brown-nose Robert throughout the entire night. Eventually, Robert realizes that he is hosting one of the parties he had always imagined, at which point he jumps into the pool completely naked, followed by Gabe and Ryan. Jim takes this as his cue to leave, sneaking away and driving home at top speed, even driving on the lawn and running over a mailbox on the way out. At the end of the night, Gabe and Ryan, both drunk and unwilling to concede defeat, remain at the party with Robert even as the CEO passes out.
The episode was written by co-producer Owen Ellickson, his first writing credit for the series after joining the writing staff in the eighth season.[1] It was directed by Charles McDougall, his seventh directing credit for the series.[1] The episode also marks the sixth appearance of Lindsey Broad, who plays Cathy, Pam's replacement during her maternity leave.[2] Due to Jenna Fischer's actual pregnancy, Pam did not appear in the episode.[3] The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Erin and Dwight taking turns suggestively massaging and stretching each other, Erin talking to the camera about her convoluted relationship with Andy, and Robert shows his guests his "shame" room.[4]
The songs "Big White Elephant" and "Model Homes" by the band In-Flight Safety were featured during scenes at the party.[5][6] The song "Can't Complain" by Bomb the Music Industry! appeared around 14 minutes in.[1] Many of the references were a result of Robert California bemoaning his position in life. He mentions early on in the episode that, "The 1% are hurting too", a reference to the slogan of the Occupy movement.[1] During the tour of his home theater, California explained that he had it created to watch Caligula, Last Tango in Paris, and Emmanuelle 2, but that the last two movies he watched in there were Marley & Me and On Golden Pond.[1][7]
"Pool Party" originally aired on NBC in the United States on January 19, 2012.[1] The episode was viewed by an estimated 6.02 million viewers and received a 3 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[8] The episode marked a slight increase in ratings compared to the previous episode, "Trivia."[8][9] Even though "Pool Party" was the highest rated NBC television episode of the night,[8] it finished third in its time slot behind Grey's Anatomy (3.4 rating/8% share) and the CBS drama Person of Interest (3.3 rating/8% share) in the 18–49 demographic[8] and ahead of the Fox drama series The Finder and The CW drama series The Secret Circle.[8]  It was the last episode of The Office  to be viewed by more than 6 million viewers.[8]
Many reviewers rated the episode very highly. WhatCulture critic Joseph Kratzer awarded the episode four out of five stars and wrote, "Now that's what I'm talking about – few things are better in art than having your expectations overturned and 'The Pool Party' pleasantly surprised me with the efficacy of its execution."[7] Jeffrey Hyatt from ScreenCrave gave the episode a 9/10 rating and wrote, "I think 'Pool Party' is my favorite episode so far this season. The Robert California and Erin/Dwight/Andy story lines were rock solid. Previous excursions out of the office have been blah, but the pool party setting really complimented the ensemble – and the sharp writing."[10] Michael Tedder from New York Magazine called the episode the season's second best, after "Trivia."[11] In addition, many critics wrote positively of the characters and their actions. Jill Mader from InsidePulse wrote that while, "[the pool party] storyline itself was just OK ... Ellie Kemper was hilarious."[12] Many reviewers, including McNutt and Forcella, found Kevin's lines and actions to be particularly memorable, most notably, his declaration that Val was racist after she asked if Darryl swims.[6][13] A variety of reviewers found the cold-opening, featuring Stanley and Dwight combining to prank Jim's attempt to get Stanley to laugh by placing meatballs in Dwight's desk, funny.[10][11][14][15]
Among critical reviewers the episode's lack of a cohesive plot was the top complaint. Myles McNutt from The A.V. Club awarded the episode a C rating, saying, "'Pool Party' was so loosely structured that it relied heavily on the characters to carry the narrative, and the result was some languid storytelling which gave me way too much time to think about missed opportunities, failed experiments, and the increasing burden of a show without any momentum."[6] Dan Forcella from TVFanatic gave the episode three-and-a-half stars out of five and wrote, "There were bits and pieces of each story that worked in 'Pool Party,' but neither Robert's stroll through parties never had, nor Erin's endeavor to make Andy jealous, came together to make completely funny or interesting tales."[13] The Huffington Post wrote that, "Once [at the titular pool part], the plot bits were so loose it might have been difficult for casual fans to follow it all."[16] Craig McQuinn from The Faster Times wrote, "'Pool Party' was one of those episodes where you can tell the writers didn't know what else to do. ... This is filler, really, which unfortunately tends to be unavoidable when you do 22-episode seasons and you're eight years in."[17] Many reviews were critical of the continued Erin-Andy romance taking center stage. McNutt wrote, "I still really do not care about Andy and Erin as a relationship. The show's approach to this storyline ... is to have Andy enjoying a fairly normal evening with his girlfriend Jessica while Erin acts like a crazy person in an effort to get his attention."[6] Forecella noted that, while the Erin and Dwight pairing was funny, their attempts to make Andy jealous were not successful, as Andy's sub-plots were deemed not funny and "boring."[13]



"Survivor Man" is the eleventh episode of the fourth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's sixty-fourth episode overall. Written by Steve Carell, who also acts on the show as Regional Manager of the fictional paper company Dunder Mifflin, Michael Scott, and directed by Paul Feig, it originally aired on NBC on November 8, 2007.[1] The episode aired during NBC's week of "green episodes", which lasted from November 4 through November 10, 2007.[2]
In the episode, Ryan excludes Michael from a company nature excursion, prompting Michael to try to prove to himself and his peers that he can survive in the wild.  Dwight drops Michael off in the middle of a local wooded area and contrary to Michael's wishes, stays behind to monitor Michael.  Meanwhile, Jim spends the day as boss, but his plan to incorporate multiple birthdays into one combined event ends up alienating the entire office against him.
Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) invites the regional branch managers and Dunder Mifflin Scranton Human Resources representative Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) to a corporate wilderness retreat, but does not invite Michael Scott (Carell), because "they already knew everything they needed to know about him". To show that he is capable of surviving in the wilderness, Michael leaves Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) in charge of the office and instructs Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) to abandon him deep in the forest with merely a knife and a roll of duct tape. Contrary to Michael's wishes, Dwight stays behind and surreptitiously monitors his condition from a distance. Michael proves to be completely incapable of living out in the wild by himself, with him spending most of the day filming himself cutting off his pants to use as a bandana, then a tent, and then ducttaping them back into pants. Dwight is forced to come out of hiding to save Michael when he tries to eat wild mushrooms.
Jim's plan to consolidate three employee birthdays into a combined birthday party encounters several complications, and his constant adjustments incur the ire of Party Planning Committee chair Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey).  Later, Jim discovers that no one likes his idea for a combined party, realizing the depth of his error when Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) mistakenly refers to him as Michael, and he returns to the original plan of having separate parties. Michael and Dwight return lightening the mood amongst the employees and for the lighting of Creed Bratton's (Creed Bratton) birthday cobbler (due to it actually being his birthday), with Michael expressing that he no longer has any desire to return to the wilderness and Jim expressing his relief that Michael has returned to run the office.
"Survivor Man" is the second episode written by Steve Carell.  Carell also wrote the second season finale "Casino Night".  The episode is the fifth episode directed by Paul Feig, and his first since the second-season episode "E-mail Surveillance".  "Survivor Man" is the second episode to feature birthdays as a plot line. The episode was the next to last episode to be aired before the effects of the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike halted production.
The episode's title and plot share similarities with Survivorman, a television show in which the host is placed in the wilderness with little or no supplies for survival. The producers contacted Survivorman host Les Stroud to obtain permission to parody his work. Stroud revealed in a 2020 interview with GQ[3] that he "couldn't have been more honoured" at the idea of the episode, and went on to state that he considered this episode to be the "highlight of his career".
"Survivor Man" received a 4.9/7 in the Nielsen ratings, meaning that 4.9 percent of households were tuned in at any given moment and seven percent of all televisions in use were tuned in to the program. The episode was watched by 8.29 million viewers and achieved a 4.3/10 in the ages 18–49 demographic.[4] Travis Fickett of IGN stated that "Overall, this isn't a terrific episode, but holds up the show's usual standard. Steve Carell is hilarious as usual. Watching him attempt to make shelter and clothing out of his suit over the span of only a few hours is great fun."  Fickett also stated that a good portion of the humor in the episode came from in-jokes that required previous knowledge of the series, specifically pointing out the parallel comparison between Michael and Jim's lives.[5]  Like Fickett, Christine Fenno of Entertainment Weekly praised the episode's comparison between Michael and Jim.  Fenno also went on to praise other points of the episode, stating she also enjoyed the overall episode for its "just outdoorsiness with Michael and Dwight, and infighting among the rest of the staff."[6]  Oscar Dahl, a Senior Writer for BuddyTV, stated that "What seems like a one and done episode without much character work at first turns into much more by the end."  Dahl went on to praise the episode, stating that it was "lighter" in comparison to Carell's previous episode "Casino Night".[7]


"Livin' the Dream" is the twenty-first episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 197th episode overall. It originally aired on NBC on May 2, 2013. The episode guest stars Michael Imperioli as Sensei Billy, and was initially scheduled to air in its half-hour timeslot, before being expanded to a full hour.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) decides to pursue a career as a professional actor, and quits his job at Dunder Mifflin. Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) finally receives his black belt in karate from his new sensei (Imperioli) and, on the recommendation of Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), is promoted to Regional Manager of the Scranton branch. Jim reconnects with Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer), and makes it clear that he will choose her over Philadelphia.
The episode received a 1.8/5 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking third in its first half-hour timeslot and fourth in its second, marking a slight increase in the ratings from the previous episode. "Livin' the Dream" received mostly positive reviews from television critics. Critical praise mainly went towards the dynamic between Jim, Pam and Dwight, particularly for the former two's reconciliation and the latter's promotion. Andy's subplot, meanwhile, received more mixed reviews.
CEO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) plans to fire Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) due to his missing work for acting gigs. However, Andy tells David he is resigning to pursue his dreams of stardom full-time, and David is relieved to not have to dismiss him. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) finally receives his black belt in karate from his new sensei, Billy (Michael Imperioli). Seeing Dwight's tenacity and devotion, David is inspired to make Dwight Andy's replacement.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) has returned to Scranton full-time, saying he has realized that he cannot devote himself to both his family and his new job, and has decided to go "all in" on his family since that is what makes him most happy. David asks Jim his opinion on promoting Dwight, and Jim says that, despite Dwight's various eccentricities, he deserves the job and will be a great manager. Dwight is elated that he has accomplished his dream; proudly exclaiming the news to the office. He appoints Jim the new assistant to the regional manager. Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) informs Jim that Athlead has found a buyer and wants them to do a promotional tour around the country for three months. With undisguised regret, Jim says he will not do the tour because he cannot put his wife Pam (Jenna Fischer) through that, unaware that Pam is listening in.
Everyone in the office tells Andy that quitting is a foolish move and he has no chance of achieving stardom. Andy eventually goes back on his decision, and David allows him to stay on in a sales position. However, mere hours later Andy feels that he is sticking with his Dundler-Mifflin job only because it is safe and that he has to take a shot at achieving fame. Fearing his conviction will falter a second time, he decides he cannot simply quit, but get fired. To do this, he initially tells Toby (Paul Lieberstein) to enter falsified and incriminating information in his record. After this fails, he attempts to grope Toby. Andy eventually resorts to shouting obscenities at David and defecating on his car, which is successful at getting him fired. Andy bids farewell to his coworkers with an unexpectedly moving rendition of "I Will Remember You", prompting them to comment to the documentary crew that he may have star potential after all.
Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) had gotten divorced, and is evicted from her studio apartment after her cats were taken away by Animal Control. She considers living in a tent in the woods, prompting Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) to offer her to stay with him until she gets back on her feet. She accepts with gratitude. As they set off to take Angela's things to Oscar's place, Oscar mentions her marriage to Robert Lipton and she breaks down into tears, saying "I love him." However, she denies she still has feelings for Robert and confesses she was talking about Dwight, and Oscar comforts her as she cries.
"Livin' the Dream" was written by story editor Niki Schwartz-Wright, marking her second writing credit for the series, after the earlier season episode "Lice".[2][3] It was directed by regular Office director Jeffrey Blitz, who last directed season eight's "Gettysburg".[2][4] The episode was originally scheduled to air in its regular half-hour time slot, but NBC later announced it would be expanded to fill an hour time slot beginning a half hour early, although it still counts as one official episode, similar to the earlier season episode "Moving On".[5] Rogers noted that "we knew the last two episodes would be hour-longs, and The Finale might even end up running longer, but we still had a lot of great storytelling to do leading up to them, and 'Livin' the Dream' was one that ultimately deserved to be an hour long episode as well!"[5]
"Livin' the Dream" originally aired on May 2, 2013 on NBC.[1] In its original American broadcast, "Livin' the Dream" was viewed by an estimated 3.51 million viewers and received a 1.8 rating/5% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[6] This means that it was seen by 1.8 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 5 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a slight increase in the ratings from the previous episode, "Paper Airplane".[6][7] The episode ranked third in its first half-hour timeslot, being beaten by an episode of the CBS comedy series Two and a Half Men which received a 3.2/10 rating and an entry of the Fox reality series American Idol which scored a 2.6/9 rating.[6] The second half-hour ranked fourth in its timeslot, being beaten by an episode of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which scored a 3.0/9 rating, an entry of the CBS series Person of Interest which garnered a 2.4/7 rating, and installment of the Fox series Glee which received a 1.9/5 rating.[6]
"Livin' the Dream" received positive reviews from television critics. Roth Cornet of IGN wrote that "it pleases me greatly that at the conclusion of this super-sized episode I was left, once again, truly looking forward to seeing what these next few weeks, and that final hour of The Office, will bring." Cornet praised the full-use of the ensemble, particularly the "Phyllis and Stanley Lil' Romeo mini-debate" and Creed's confused mimicking of Dwight's declaration. Cornet also called the Dwight storyline "perfectly executed", as well as the Jim-Pam-Dwight dynamic featured throughout the episode, calling their companionship to be "entirely earned". She also praised Kinsey's performance during her character's storyline, and said her final scenes with Oscar "[tugged] at my heart-string". She gave the episode an 8.5 out of 10, calling it "Great".[8] M. Giant of Television Without Pity awarded the episode an "A−" and wrote that "almost everybody is having their best day in a long time, in the best episode of The Office in an even longer time".[9]
Nick Campbell of TV.com complimented the sentimental storylines in the episode, specifically between Jim, Pam and Dwight. He was positive towards Jim and Pam's reconciliation, but felt "something hollow about their reunion". He also noted that the Jim-Pam storyline caused the Dwight-Angela relationship to go "darker".[10] Alan Sepinwall of HitFix gave the episode a slightly more mixed review writing that "the non-Andy parts of "Livin' the Dream" were fairly interesting". He appreciated the drama coming from Angela's desperation, despite disagreeing with the logic in the situation. Sepinwall praised the Jim-Dwight dynamic in the episode, considering it an enjoyable payoff, and also praised Jim and Pam's reconciliation, particularly them annoying their co-workers with their flirting.[11] Joshua Alton of The A.V. Club was more negative towards the episode, saying it felt "padded-out" to fill the full hour timeslot, and that "this episode might be the nadir for the show's hour-long installments". He was complimentary towards the Jim-Pam storyline, but felt "there wasn't much happening" beyond Pam overhearing Jim's talk with Darryl. Alton praised the Dwight storyline and his dynamic with Jim and Pam, calling it "the true fan service". Alton gave the episode a "C−".[12]



"The Secret" is the thirteenth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's nineteenth episode overall. It was written by Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky and directed by Dennie Gordon. The episode first aired on January 19, 2006 on NBC.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company.  In this episode, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) is forced into spending time with Michael Scott (Steve Carell) so that Michael will not reveal Jim's feelings for Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer). Meanwhile, Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) takes a "sick day" and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) investigates whether he is actually sick.
"The Secret" was written in roughly 26 hours and was the fastest episode written for the series at the time. The title for the episode is purposely vague and refers to Jim's hidden feelings for Pam, Dwight and Angela's relationship, and Oscar's homosexuality. "The Secret" is also the first episode where many of the actors not credited in the opening sequence are credited directly afterwards instead of as guest appearances. The scenes at the Hooters restaurant were filmed relatively early in the day, and a majority of the scenes were improvised by Carell. "The Secret" received largely positive reviews from television critics and was watched by 8.7 million viewers, ranking as the forty-fourth most-watched television episode of the week.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) realizes that Michael Scott (Steve Carell) mistakenly assumed he was making his feelings for Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) known to everyone. He tells Michael that he meant this to be a secret between the two of them. Michael concludes from this that he and Jim are friends, which leads to an awkward lunch at Hooters paid for with a corporate credit card. Michael ultimately reveals Jim's secret to everyone, forcing Jim to confess his crush to Pam himself, although he tells her that he got over it three years ago. However, Michael later tells her that he learned of the crush during the recent "booze cruise", leading her to suspect Jim is still infatuated.
Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) "investigates" Oscar Martinez's (Oscar Nunez) claimed sick day from work, learning that the co-worker is actually taking time off to ice-skate. Dwight blackmails Oscar, saying he owes him a favor in return for not revealing his unauthorized leave-taking. He then watches a movie with Oscar and Oscar's "roommate" Gil (Tom W. Chick).
"The Secret" was written by Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky.[2][3] The episode was written in roughly 26 hours and was the fastest episode written for the series, at the time.[4] The idea to make the entry the "spring cleaning episode" was "throw[n] in at the last minute" because the writers were "desperate". The subplot was inspired by a friend of Eisenberg's, who suggested the story after he was forced to undergo spring cleaning at his office.[2]
The title for the episode is purposely vague. During the commentary, the cast revealed that there are actually three "secrets" in the episode: Jim's hidden feelings for Pam,[5] Dwight and Angela's relationship,[6] and Oscar's homosexuality.[7] Stupkitsky later joked that there are "actually nine secrets in the episode".[3] The cold opening – wherein Michael tries to tell a joke where the punch line is "What's up dog?" – was inspired by the same prank being pulled on Stupnitsky.[2] The original cold opening for the episode featured Michael playing golf in his office, but it was cut.[2][3]
Jenna Fischer felt that Krasinski's performance in the episode was "really great" and called "The Secret" her "favorite John Krasinski episode".[7] Krasinski said that Creed Bratton's line, "Which one is Pam?" was his favorite moment "in the entire show, ever".[5] Fischer, in turn, said that her favorite moment was when Jim confesses that he does not have a crush on her, due to the emotion involved. Fischer later admitted that, after the shot was filmed, she cried because it "broke [her] heart".[7]
"The Secret" was directed by Dennie Gordon, who would go on to direct the season two episode "Boys and Girls".[6][7] Tom W. Chick portrayed Gil. The cast were particularly impressed with his acting; Fischer called him a "great casting" choice.[7] Lindsey Stoddart, who plays one of the Hooters waitresses, was an improv acquaintance of Martin's.[8]
The shots at the Hooters restaurant were filmed relatively early in the day, and a majority of the scenes were improvised by Carell. In fact, Carell decided to play the penis game – in which two or more people shout the word "penis" at varying levels in an attempt to out do each other – which Krasinski called "the craziest thing I have experienced".[5] The scene where Pam and Kelly discuss wedding plans was particularly difficult to shoot all in one scene, due to the amount of activity going on. John Krasinski later noted that he was impressed that the director and cameramen were able to successfully get the shot.[5] The sequence featuring Michael and Jim talking in the break room was made of two composition shots, because Krasinski was laughing "the entire" time. Michael buying Stanley a peach ice tea and telling him that he will "hate it" was entirely improvised.[5]
The Season Two DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include the cut cold opening of Michael playing with his new putting toy, Dwight expounding on his thoughts on dust bunnies, Michael surveying his "worker bees", Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) finding an unfinished People Magazine crossword puzzle from 1999 in Michael's office, Michael describing his college fraternity experience, and Michael buying Jim a Hooters T-shirt.[9]
Michael attributes the 1981 song "Our Lips Are Sealed" to The Bangles, when it was really sung by The Go-Go's. Michael and Jim go to Hooters, a company whose waiting staff are primarily young, attractive waitresses usually referred to simply as "Hooter Girls" whose revealing outfits and sex appeal is played up and is a primary component of the company's image. At the restaurant, Michael makes several breast jokes. Near the end of the episode, Michael makes reference to a nonexistent Cinemax movie called More Secrets of a Call Girl.[10]
"The Secret" originally aired on NBC on January 19, 2006.[11] The episode was watched by 8.7 million viewers. This marked a slight decrease in viewers from a lead-in episode of "My Name is Earl", but more than a follow-up episode of "ER".[12] "The Secret" ranked as the forty-fourth most-watched episode for the week ending January 22.[13]
M. Giant of Television Without Pity awarded the episode an "A".[10] Brendan Babish of DVD Verdict gave the episode a moderately positive review and awarded the entry a "B".[14] He wrote that while it was ""a solid episode" it "lacks any of the belly laughs the show frequently elicits".[14] Michael Sciannamea of AOLTV called the installment "a terrific episode" and wrote that "Michael Scott […] was at his obnoxious best […] in this episode".[15] Furthermore, he highly praised the story, noting that "the Jim/Pam scenario has definitely taken a more interesting turn".[15] During the filming of "The Secret", the cast of the show discovered that Carell had been nominated for a Golden Globe Award. Fischer later noted that it was "fun that ['The Secret' is] the episode that airs after his win".[16]


"Dinner Party" is the thirteenth episode of the fourth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's sixty-sixth episode overall. Written by the writing team of Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky and directed by Paul Feig, the episode originally aired on NBC on April 10, 2008. Guest stars in the episode include Beth Grant, Steve Seagren, and Gary Weeks.
In the episode, Michael Scott and his girlfriend Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin), the former Vice-President of Regional Sales at the Dunder Mifflin corporate office in New York City, throw a dinner party and invite Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), as well as an uninvited Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson). The party ends with Michael and Jan having a loud argument; Michael leaves with Dwight on the advice of two police officers who respond to a domestic disturbance call after the fight.
The episode was the first original episode of The Office to be broadcast since the episode "The Deposition" on November 15, 2007, due to the effects of the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike. As such, the atmosphere on the set was one of a more laid-back nature, and the cast broke into laughter due to the jokes many times. "Dinner Party" received acclaim from critics, with many hailing it as one of the series' best entries. The episode received 4.8 Nielsen rating and was watched by 9.2 million viewers.
The office workers are stuck working overtime on a major assignment. After asking Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) to confirm that he has not made any plans for the evening in anticipation of the overtime assignment, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) calls corporate and declares that he is releasing the workers from overtime. Michael then proceeds to invite Jim and his girlfriend Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) to join him and his girlfriend Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) for dinner at his condominium after Jim had previously turned him down nine times. When Jim begins to formulate an excuse, Michael reminds him that he just said he had not made any plans. Jim begins to suspect that Michael fabricated the overtime assignment and the call to corporate just to maneuver him and Pam into coming to dinner. Michael also invites Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), but excludes Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) due to it being a couples' dinner and Michael owning only six wine glasses, much to Dwight's dismay. On a tour of the condominium, Jan shows the workspace from which she runs her candle-making home business. Jan's dominance in the relationship is apparent from the living arrangements; Michael sleeps on a small bench due to Jan's "space issues", and his sole comfort is a very small "plasma TV", which he bought for $200. It is also later revealed that Michael underwent three vasectomies in the course of trying to please Jan’s inconsistent decisions about having a child. Throughout the evening, Jan plays a song by her former assistant, Hunter. Titled "That One Night", the lyrics of the song strongly suggest an intimate encounter once occurred between Jan and Hunter.[1]
In the kitchen, Jan quietly confronts Pam with a false assumption that Michael and Pam had once dated, while Michael attempts to get Jim and Andy to invest in Jan's candle-making business for "only $10,000".  Jim's attempt to escape the party with Pam by pretending his apartment has flooded is unsuccessful.  Dwight arrives, uninvited, with his own food, wine glasses and his former babysitter (Beth Grant) as his date. (Dwight describes the relationship as "purely carnal".) The feud between Michael and Jan escalates, culminating in Jan's destruction of the $200 television using one of Michael's beloved Dundie Awards. The police arrive, responding to a call about a disturbance; despite Jan becoming remorseful, Michael agrees to spend the night with Dwight under the advice of the officers.  Jim and Pam share a warm moment together eating take-out food in their car, repeatedly calling each other "babe" in a mockery of Michael and Jan; Jim also puts on Hunter's CD, which he stole from the condo. In Andy's car, Andy attempts to flirt with Angela by leaning in and tasting her ice cream cone; she responds coldly by smashing the ice cream on the outside of the door. Jan is then seen trying to fix the broken Dundie Award.
The episode was the first original episode of The Office to be broadcast since the episode "The Deposition" on November 15, 2007, due to the effects of the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike.[citation needed] The Writers Guild of America (WGA) went on strike at 12:01 am Eastern Standard Time on November 5, 2007.[3][4] Filming of The Office immediately halted on that date, as Steve Carell, who is a member of the WGA, refused to cross WGA picket lines.[5] Members of Writers Guild of America, East and Writers Guild of America, West voted to end the 100-day strike on February 12, 2008.[6] Writers were allowed to return to work on the same day.[7] The WGA allowed for show runners to return to work on February 11,[8] in preparation for the conclusion of the strike. The show runner for The Office, executive producer Greg Daniels, returned on February 11,[9] while the show's writers returned to work on February 13.[7] If not for the writers' strike, this episode would have completed filming successfully during the week of November 5, 2007.[10]
"Dinner Party" was written by Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky.[11] Other writers for the series also added various background gags to the episode, such as Andy wearing two sweaters and holding a coat, all of the photos in the condo being of Jan with other men, and Michael's garage having both a Soloflex and a Bowflex back to back because "Michael is completely taken by late-night infomercials".[1]
The episode was directed by Paul Feig, making it his sixth directorial credit for the series.[11] Eisenberg and Stupnitsky later noted that, because the episode was the first to be filmed following the strike, there was "a great, loose vibe on set", and as such, many of the actors would break character and laugh at the jokes.[1] The majority of the episode took place at Michael's condo. This was the same location used in the second season entry "Office Olympics". Eisenberg and Stupnitsky explained that "the production design team did an amazing job to transform the condo from Michael's design aesthetic to Jan's."[1]
Contrary to most episodes of the series, in which the scenes and dialogue are scripted, many scenes from "Dinner Party" were improvised by the actors, such as Jan dancing while holding Jim's hand, Michael saying "snip-snap" when describing his multiple vasectomies, and Jan – along with Michael's reaction to – placing "finger horns" on her head while saying "I'm the devil".[12]
The song featured in the episode supposedly performed by Jan's former assistant, Hunter, was written by the episode writers Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky and Todd Fancey of The New Pornographers; Eisenberg and Stupnitsky wrote the lyrics, and Fancey wrote the music. The song was sung by Fancey. Eisenberg and Stupnitsky later explained that, despite the suggestive lyrics, the song is "left to interpretation".[1] In April 2018, Fancey shared the alternate version of "That One Night". After sending an acoustic version, Fancey was asked by a production assistant to record a "smoother, more polished" version of the song. The fully arranged version was later scrapped in favor of Fancey's original version.[12]
The episode guest starred Beth Grant, Steve Seagren, and Gary Weeks. Grant would later reprise her character in the ninth season episode "Junior Salesman".[13] Grant was asked to appear in the episode after Daniels saw her performance in the 2007 film No Country for Old Men. Grant praised Carell's improvisational skills—noting that "he just keeps going off script [and that he] is channeling something"—as well as Wilson's humorous antics while acting.[14] She concluded that "if they had wanted a crazy, wild feature film using all the comedy that I saw in just those few days, you could absolutely have had one" with their acting.[14]
The group plays Celebrity, a game wherein  teams play against each other to guess as many celebrity names as possible before time runs out.[15] Michael tries to get his team to guess Arnold Schwarzenegger by saying, "Rhymes with Parnold Schwarzenegger".[16] Michael also tries to get his team to guess Tom Cruise, to which Jim answers Katie Holmes and Dawson's Creek to purposely throw Michael off. Thematically, several crew members and critics have compared the episode to the 1962 play Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? by Edward Albee, which examines the breakdown of the marriage of a middle-aged couple.[16][17]
"Dinner Party" brought in an average of 9.2 million American viewers,[18] which was the highest total audience since the fourth season premiere episode "Fun Run".[18] This episode achieved a 4.8/12 percent rating in the key 18–49 demographic,[18] meaning that 4.8 percent of 18- to 49-year-olds were tuned in at any given moment and twelve percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time were tuned in. The episode ranked in eighth place, in the 18–49 demographic, among all programs on television, which aired during the week of this episodes original broadcast.[19]
The episode has been met with critical acclaim since it has aired and is considered one of the best episodes of The Office by many critics. Travis Fickett of IGN wrote that "this is one of those great episodes of The Office that is hysterical and difficult to watch at the same time."[20] He noted that this was largely due to the fact that "it's not because of something Michael is doing that makes you wince. It's because of what's happening to him."[20] He ultimately gave the episode an 8.9/10, denoting a "great" episode.[20] Jay Black of AOL's TV Squad said that "[he] was happy The Office was back" but "the only thing [he] worried about was whether it'd still be good" after the writers strike.[21] However, he noted that his fears were put to rest and that "Dinner Party" was "a Barry Bonds's-style chemically enhanced mega-home-run."[21] M. Giant of Television Without Pity graded this episode with an "A."[15] Aubry D'Arminio of Entertainment Weekly said that her favorite moment of the episode "was when Jan popped on that song by her former assistant, Hunter."[22]
Jack Rodgers of TV Guide wrote that it is "a hilarious, brutally awkward look at the relationship (and apartment) from hell, a train wreck that you just can’t keep from staring at."[23] He also noted that it is "a study of four couples: one hideously dysfunctional (Michael and Jan), one loving (Jim and Pam), one mismatched (Angela and Andy), and one, ahem, "purely carnal" (Dwight and babysitter)."[23] The A.V. Club reviewer Nathan Rabin praised the episode for its "sheer squirm-inducing awkwardness".[16] He ultimately gave the episode an "A".[16] Former United States Republican presidential nominee John McCain, a fan of the series, told writer B. J. Novak that his favorite scene from the show is in this episode when Michael is giving his guests a tour of his condo, and a tripod can be seen set up by his bed.[24]
Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky's writing for this episode was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series at the 60th Primetime Emmy Awards in 2008.[25] Paul Feig won the 2008 Directors Guild of America award for Outstanding Directing in a Comedy Series for this episode.[26]



Part 1
Part 2
"Weight Loss" is the collective name for the first and second episodes of the fifth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 73rd and 74th episodes overall. Written by Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky, and directed by Paul Feig, the episode first aired as a single 60 minute show in the United States on September 25, 2008, on NBC.[1] "Weight Loss" guest stars Amy Ryan as Holly Flax, Dale Raoul as Ronni, and Rich Sommer as Alex.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, the whole office participates in a company-wide weight loss contest. Pam (Jenna Fischer) is in New York City for art school, which causes her and Jim to have to adjust to being temporarily apart. An awkward tension between Michael (Steve Carell) and Holly (Amy Ryan) develops after she accepts a date with another man. Meanwhile, Angela (Angela Kinsey) and Dwight (Rainn Wilson) continue their secret relationship despite Angela's upcoming wedding to Andy. Later, Jim asks Pam a very important question.
The office partakes in a company-wide weight loss competition, with the prize of extra vacation days for the winning branch. Initially enthusiastic, the staff become over-competitive, especially Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) who stops eating and tries numerous diets, eventually passing out during one weigh-in. She buys what she believes is a tapeworm from Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) as another measure, but Creed privately admits that it "wasn't a tapeworm." After Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) abandons Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) miles away from the office with no phone or money to force her to exercise, corporate responds with a memo that staff should not resort to drastic weight loss measures. The Scranton branch ends up losing the competition, although Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) is proud of his individual results, and decides to take the vacation anyway.
Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) begins a three-month graphic design class in New York City. Wanting to see her, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) meets Pam for lunch at an interstate rest stop between Scranton and New York City. He proposes to her outside in the pouring rain, and she accepts ecstatically.
Plotting his return to the company, Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) apologizes to various people around the office for his past behavior, while keeping a list of people who wrong him to take revenge on them when he's back on top. Most notably, he apologizes to, and then proceeds to ask his former girlfriend Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) out, only to be rejected when she tells him that she is dating Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson).
Holly Flax (Amy Ryan) yells at Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) for chastising Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), still believing he is mentally challenged. He awkwardly reveals he is "not retarded", and an embarrassed Holly apologizes and walks away. Holly continues to show interest in Michael Scott (Steve Carell), who now sports a goatee, until she catches him talking to a pregnant Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin). Holly then goes out on a date with Oscar's yoga instructor, and buys Counting Crows tickets as a surprise for their next date. When he never calls her, Michael berates the yoga instructor to Holly's pleasure, then offers to buy the tickets from her only to tear them up.
Phyllis takes over the Party Planning Committee by blackmailing Angela with her knowledge of Angela and Dwight's secret affair. After Angela shoots down all of Andy's wedding ideas, she warms up to him until he tells her that he booked his a cappella band 'Here Comes Treble' to play at their wedding (he states the members are Carl One, Carl Two, Broccoli Rob, Spare Rib, Doobie, Lunchbox, Boner Champ (Andy), Pubie Lewis and the News, Hopscotch, Jingle Jangle, and Sandwich).
Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) is briefly seen in a Costa Rican hospital due to a neck injury while zip-lining.
"Weight Loss" was directed by Paul Feig and written by Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky.[2] Greg Daniels proposed the idea of Jim proposing to Pam in a gas station parking lot, as well as the decision to include the proposal in the season premiere episode - instead of during a season finale - to catch viewers off guard.[3]
The proposal scene, which was filmed at a set built on an empty parking lot in Los Feliz, California, was the most expensive scene shot during the entire run of the show.[3] The crew built a replica of an actual rest stop on the Merritt Parkway in Greenwich, Connecticut, that Daniels often visited as a child; the crew used Google Street View imagery to recreate the facade.[3] The prop gas station building was large enough for background actors to move around, and a four-lane racetrack was built in front, where a team of 35 professional drivers drove cars and semi trucks at 55 miles per hour.[3] Rainfall was created using rain machines, and an artificial "wooded" background was added in pre-production in place of the mountainous California backdrop.[3]
In the 18–49 demographic, "Weight Loss" earned a 4.9/11 ratings share. The episode was watched by 9.1 million viewers.
The episode received critical acclaim, with praise mainly focusing on the episode's balance between comedy and character-driven moments, especially Jim's proposal to Pam. This scene ranked number 2 in phillyBurbs.com's top ten moments from the fifth season of The Office. Dwight and Angela carrying on their affair in the hidden corner of the warehouse during business hours ranked number 7 on that list. Writer Jen Weilgus described Dwight's line, "We done good in there, Half Pint," as the best quote of the season. Ryan's return as a temp in this episode, tied with his second return appearance in the episode "Dream Team", ranked number 5 in the list.[4] Travis Fickett of IGN gave the episode a 9.2 of 10, indicating that it was "amazing". He wrote, "It's another terrific mix of character and comedy that is perfectly balanced," concluding that "The Office remains one of the funniest, best written, best performed and one of the best shows of TV. Period."[5] Nathan Rabin, writing for The A.V. Club, graded the episode an "A−", giving particular praise to the development of the romance between Pam and Jim. "It was an episode full of big laughs and neat little character moments, as well as a number of gags rooted in camera placement. Ah, but I'm leaving out the big moment, that glorious milestone where years and years of flirtation, meaningful glances and missed chances finally paid off in a surprisingly satisfying, genuinely surprising beauty of a scene where Jim proposed to Pam outside a truck stop in the pouring rain."[6]
Aubry Arminio of Entertainment Weekly also lauded the episode's more dramatic aspects over the comedic moments: "That’s what was so great about yesterday’s episode: I’ll admit I wasn’t rolling on the floor laughing, but I did find myself clutching my hand over my heart several times. Last night had those tender moments only The Office can pull off without seeming corny: Jim’s proposal in the rain in front of a rest stop, Michael pumping up Kelly’s self-esteem by having the staff point out her beauty (Creed: “Hell of an ass”), and Angela realizing that she's been terrible to Andy, then smooching in front of everyone."[7] Oscar Dahl of BuddyTV lauded the episode, opining that it stayed true to the spirit of the show's previous four seasons. "The Office is the unique comedy in which characters evolve, story-lines take seasons to play out and the mythology is never dispensed at the expense of the humor.  Five season in, and tonight's premiere was every bit as funny as anything from the previous four.  It's a testament to the writers and the actors, and their continued focus on staying the course, sticking to what makes The Office perhaps the best and most consistent all-around comedy."[8] Screen Junkies expressed hope for the season as a whole, stating "Everything that makes the show awesome is still there and firing on all cylinders, so I’m really looking forward to the rest of the season."[9]
"Weight Loss" was voted the second highest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 8.92 out of 10.[10]

"PDA" is the sixteenth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 142nd episode overall. Written by Robert Padnick and directed by series creator Greg Daniels, the episode was shown on February 10, 2011, on NBC. This episode received positive reviews and was nominated for the Writers Guild of America Award for Television: Episodic Comedy.
It is Valentine's Day. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Holly Flax (Amy Ryan) have started dating again, and their bizarre and often sensual public displays of affection (PDA) start to make everyone in the office uncomfortable. Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) holds a meeting about PDA, saying that Sabre is tolerant of office relationships, but not PDA, pointing the finger at Michael and Holly (who are shocked that the PDA meeting is about them). They both agree to stop, but while Holly follows through, Michael cannot help himself. Michael then declares to the office that he genuinely loves Holly, who is at first taken aback, but then reciprocates. When Michael and Holly make a scene miming sexual actions without touching each other, Gabe reprimands them, suggesting that they are acting this way to have a full on relationship before Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) returns from jury duty, which would send Holly back to Nashua. Michael then becomes worried that they will have to break up again, but Holly assures him that they can make it work. Michael points out that they broke up the last time because of that and cannot see Holly for the rest of the day. Michael then confronts Holly to tell her that he is breaking up with her. Holly, however, says that they should decide for themselves and not let the company decide their future. They both resolve to move in together and announce it to the office.
Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) have too much champagne during lunch, causing complications when they have to return to work. During the PDA meeting, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) lists people that have had sex in the workplace (most of the workers), and Jim and Pam are not mentioned. Due to their intoxication, they agree to give it a try, but they have a hard time finding a place to do it, from hidden places in the warehouse to Ryan Howard's (B. J. Novak) closet. They eventually return to their desks. The two tell the interviewers that they left for a walk, but Pam gives a knowing smile at the end of the interview.
Gabe arranges a romantic treasure hunt for Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), but she is stumped at the first clue and asks Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) for help. Despite the fact that he is dating a friend of Darryl Philbin's (Craig Robinson) named Rachel, Andy is at first reluctant but relents at Erin's friendly urging. The hunt starts with a puzzle picture, which leads to Gabe's stereo in Darryl's office, which leads to glow in the dark stars in Ryan's closet, leading to sparkling cider with Hank Tate (Hugh Dane) the security guard, and finally to a Valentine's cookie in the break room. When the cookie tells her to enjoy her Valentine's kiss, Erin thinks she is supposed to kiss Andy. Andy points out Gabe blowing a kiss through the window and leaves awkwardly.
This episode was written by Robert Padnick, his first writing credit of the series. It was directed by Greg Daniels, developer of the U.S. version, his twelfth directing credit of the series. Beginning with this episode, writer and cast member B. J. Novak was promoted from a co-executive to an executive producer. Also, Warren Lieberstein and Halsted Sullivan were promoted from producers to supervising producers.
In its original American broadcast on February 10, 2011, "PDA" was viewed by an estimated 6.90 million viewers and received a 3.5 rating/9% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[2]  This means that it was seen by 3.5% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a slight drop in the ratings from the previous episode, "The Search".[2][3]
For his work on this episode, Robert Padnick was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for Episodic Comedy.[4]


"Last Day in Florida" is the eighteenth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 170th episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on March 8, 2012. "Last Day in Florida" was written by Robert Padnick and directed by Matt Sohn. The episode features the final appearance of Lindsey Broad and guest stars Georgia Engel.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Robert California (James Spader) reveals he hates Nellie Bertram's (Catherine Tate) business plan and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) swings into action to keep Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) from getting fired. Meanwhile, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) learns that Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) is not going to return to Scranton. Also, Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) and Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) compete to sell cookies to Kevin (Brian Baumgartner).
"Last Day in Florida" received mixed reviews from critics, with multiple critics praising Wilson and Krasinski's performance. Like the previous episodes involving Florida, the Scranton sub-plot received mixed reviews. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Last Day in Florida" was viewed by an estimated 4.89 million viewers and received a 2.6 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode ranked second in its timeslot and was also the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) celebrates his winning of the Vice President position on a golf outing with Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), Robert California (James Spader), and Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate). After playing, Robert tells Jim that he dislikes the business plan for the Sabre store, citing the poor quality of the products; he only approved it because Jo Bennett wanted it. He plans to sandbag it at a high-level meeting, and Jim is stunned when Robert strongly hints he is going to fire Dwight over it. Jim makes several attempts to stop Dwight from attending the meeting with Robert, but Dwight is heedless and, feeling empowered by his promotion, continually insults Jim, who finally decides to leave Dwight to his fate. However, a guilt-inducing phone call to Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) makes Jim decide he has to tell Dwight what is about to happen, no matter what. Dwight ignores the news, thinking Jim is jealous of him and is pranking him, so Jim resorts to simply wrestling with Dwight outside the conference room. In the meantime, Nellie has Todd Packer (David Koechner) stand in as VP in Dwight's absence. When Dwight finally makes it into the conference room, he hears Robert planning to fire the VP, so he sneaks out of the conference room and lets Packer take the fall in front of those present. Humbled, Dwight then silently extends a hand to Jim, and they head back to Scranton with Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker), who has reverted to his old grumpy self over the thought of leaving Florida.
In Scranton, Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) and Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) are both trying to sell Girl Scout cookies for their daughters. When Toby's requests clash with Darryl's, Darryl tells him they need their own sections of the office to sell to in order to not interfere with each other. To Toby’s surprise, Darryl only chooses accounting while Toby gets every other section. Darryl had asked for accounting because Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) buys more cookies than everyone else put together. Toby eventually realizes Darryl's plan and the two end up fighting over who sells Kevin cookies, with Kevin coming up with absurd competition ideas. After doing a song and dance for Kevin, Kevin still can not make up his mind, so Darryl and Toby contemplate giving up until Kevin mentions he plans to buy hundreds of boxes of cookies, at which point they continue the competition. He has them record a voicemail message for him pretending to be girls who are having sex with him, but they finally give up for good when Kevin wants to ride them like a pony, citing they still want to maintain their dignity and will not go beyond the limit to what they would do for their daughters. When they walk away, Kevin says he will do any absurd thing for them to continue, kissing Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) to prove it, but they still refuse.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) learns that Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) is not coming back to Scranton after she takes a job helping an elderly lady, Irene (Georgia Engel) she met at the Sabre store opening, leaving Andy very distraught, especially when he learns that everyone else already knew through the social media of Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), who returned to Scranton after freaking out. When Dwight, Jim, and Stanley return to Scranton and Andy sees Jim happily reunite with Pam, Andy decides to travel to Florida to try and bring Erin back.
"Last Day in Florida" was written by Robert Padnick, his second writing credit for the season after "Gettysburg".[2][3] The episode was directed by Matt Sohn, his third director's credit for the season after "Pam's Replacement" and "Tallahassee".[4][5] The episode features a guest appearance from David Koechner, who appears as Todd Packer in the series.[3] He recently made a deal with NBC to do more episodes for the series and also possibly join the cast of series developer Greg Daniels's next series, Friday Night Dinner, an adaption of the British series of the same name.[6] Lindsey Broad, who portrays Cathy Simms, Pam's replacement during her maternity leave, makes her twelfth and final appearance on the series.[7][8] The episode also marks the second appearance of Georgia Engel as Irene, Erin's elderly new friend.[9] Showrunner Paul Lieberstein said in an interview that he was excited for her appearance calling her performance "fantastic".[9] She appeared in three episodes in the season.[9] The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Irene introducing Erin to her grandson who asks Erin to go on a date with him, which she says yes to, and Packer attempting to have a conversation with California over the HBO medieval fantasy series Game of Thrones, but learns Robert has not seen the series.[10]
In the episode, Ryan mentions that he told everybody through his Tumblr account that Erin was not coming back from Florida.[11] Kevin forces Toby and Darryl to sing "Hello! Ma Baby" in the style of Michigan J. Frog.[11] Sabre's Pyramid tablet makes a reappearance in the episode.[3] The device serves as a parody of several tablet computers, specifically the Apple iPad.[12] B. J. Novak described the device as "really the worst piece of technology that you've ever seen."[13] The device was created by Paul Lieberstein, who originally envisioned that the device only had the rights to the 1993 film Coneheads.[14]
"Last Day in Florida" aired on March 8, 2012.[1] The episode was viewed by an estimated 4.89 million viewers and received a 2.6 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[15] This means that it was seen by 2.6% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[15] This marked a slight rise in the ratings from the previous episode, "Test the Store".[15][16] The episode finished second in its time slot, beating Fox drama series The Finder and reruns of the ABC medical drama Grey's Anatomy and The CW drama series Supernatural.[15] Despite this, the episode was defeated by the CBS drama Person of Interest.[15] In addition, "Last Day in Florida" was the highest-rated NBC television episode of the night.[15]
"Last Day in Florida" received mixed reviews from critics, with many of them praising Rainn Wilson and John Krasinski's performance in the episode and their characters' interaction. Writing for New York, Michael Tedder called the scene featuring Dwight helping Jim up "eloquent" and wrote that it summarized their relationship over the years.[11] The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt called the episode the "most satisfying episode in the Florida arc", mainly praising the Jim-Dwight relationship, and said that since Steve Carell left the series they have become the "emotional core" of the show.[17] He also complimented the writers for adding "business logic" to Sabre, specifically with Robert criticizing the Sabre Pyramid.[17] Despite mainly praising the Florida plotline, he went on to criticize the Andy-Erin plotline for Erin's incompetence and also the fact he stopped caring about Andy and Erin's relationship, although he did call their video chat "charming".[17] He ultimately gave the episode a B+.[17] Brian Marder of Hollywood.com had a mixed response to the episode and wrote that it ruined the positive momentum the previous two episodes had.[18] He also wrote that the episode was not a good episode until the final scene of Andy telling the camera he is going to Florida to get Erin back, calling the development "half intriguing, half mildly uninteresting".[18]
IGN writer Cindy White considered the Jim and Dwight scenes to be one of the only highlights of the episode, especially due to them being the core element to the series.[19] She criticized Robert's role in the episode and series, calling his character "a tool ... I mean that in both senses", and also wrote that he was too much of an inconsistent character.[19] She concluded that while the episode was not "terrible", it was a mediocre conclusion to the Florida storyline and wrote that "I've got a suspicion that the best part of Season 8 is behind us".[19] She ultimately gave the episode a 7.0/10.[19] Jeffrey Hyatt of Screen Crave gave the episode a review of seven out of ten, writing that the only drawback for the episode was the Scranton subplot, because it "turned really old, really fast", although he did compliment Lieberstein's performance in the episode.[20]
Like the previous episodes, the Scranton subplot received mixed reviews.[18][20] Tedder called the subplot "typical, but likable".[11] McNutt wrote that while it had good moments, the storyline ultimately felt like "rejected storylines from an old sitcom"[17] while White wrote that she enjoyed the storyline.[19]


"Angry Andy" is the twenty-first episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office. It was written by Justin Spitzer and directed by Claire Scanlon. The episode aired on NBC in the United States on April 19, 2012.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) returns to the office to find Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) in the manager's chair. After throwing an extreme tantrum and punching a hole in the wall, Andy is fired. Meanwhile, Kelly is forced to choose between Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) and a new man, Ravi (Sendhil Ramamurthy).
The episode received a lukewarm response from critics. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Angry Andy" was viewed by an estimated 4.35 million viewers and received a 2.2 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, making it, at the time, the lowest-rated episode of The Office to air. The episode ranked second in its timeslot and was also the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) returns to Dunder Mifflin with Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) to find Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) in the manager's chair. Andy enlists Robert California (James Spader) to give Andy his job back, but Nellie refuses to relinquish the job. Robert backs out of the situation, due to his sexual desire for Nellie. Nellie further asserts her authority when she orders Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) to dock Andy's paycheck twice, and she complies. This causes Andy to have sexual performance difficulties with Erin. Erin asks Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) if he had similar problems after his loss of the manager position, which he denies. After Dwight tells Nellie that she has affected Andy's sex life, she begins to feel guilty. She holds a meeting where the office workers share advice on how to sexually perform with Andy, when it is revealed the meeting is about him. After the meeting, when Nellie makes another innuendo about Andy's problems, Erin loses her temper by yelling at Nellie to shut up, throwing her office phone to the ground, followed by Nellie's memo forms, pens, and her caramel. This gives Andy, filled with anger, the freedom to vent by throwing his desk chair at Robert, smashing Nellie's picture frame to the ground, and finally punching his hand through the wall (as he has done once before). When Robert then chooses Nellie as regional manager, Andy refuses to accept a demotion by saying "no" too many times in a calm way, and a surprised Robert fires him. Though he now has no job, Andy regains his sense of self-confidence and is once again able to perform.
Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) is forced to choose between Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) and a new man, Ravi (Sendhil Ramamurthy). Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) set up Kelly and Ravi, her daughter Cece's pediatrician, in hopes of Kelly finally moving on from Ryan. Ryan makes several attempts to get back with Kelly, though everyone finds the attempts pathetic because he can not even say he truly loves her and wants to be with her always (he keeps qualifying all of his feelings for her) and even admits he would prefer she not be with anyone else if she is not going to be with him. Warehouse worker Nate (Mark Proksch) even states that he prefers Ravi to Ryan, despite having never met Ravi and only knowing Ryan (whom he calls Brian) from their brief interaction. Pam eventually says that he is not a nice person, and Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) says he is not boyfriend material. Ryan tells the office he has a love poem for her, which Kelly has no interest in reading. As the staff are heading outside the building to go home, they see Ryan sitting on a steed professing his love (again, in insultingly hedging terms) to Kelly. She responds by saying she is in love with Ravi and hopes to stay friends with Ryan. They hug goodbye, which turns into a make-out session. The episode closes with Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam finding and reading Ryan's love poem. Initially scoffing, they are both noticeably moved by it. Tearing up, Jim informs the camera crew that Ryan can never know of the incident.
"Angry Andy" was written by Justin Spitzer, his second writing credit for the season after "Garden Party".[3] The episode was directed by Claire Scanlon, her first credit for the series. The episode guest stars Sendhil Ramamurthy as Ravi, Pam and Jim's pediatrician. Before the premiere of the episode, it was revealed that Ramamurthy would be introduced as a new romantic interest for Mindy Kaling's character Kelly Kapoor. Writer B. J. Novak explained that Ryan and Kelly "go through a heart-wrenching break-up [and the two] end up becoming bitter enemies in the office when she falls in love with an Indian doctor. He's very handsome and a much, much better match for Kelly than Ryan is."[4] TV Fanatic predicted that Ramamurthy's appearance in the show was done so that Kaling could exit the program, due to her commitment to her Fox series The Mindy Project.[5]
"Angry Andy" originally aired on NBC in the United States on April 26, 2012.[6] The episode was viewed by an estimated 4.35 million viewers and received a 2.2 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[7] This means that it was seen by 2.2% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[7] In addition, the episode was, at the time, the lowest-rated episode of the series to air, beating the previous episode, "Welcome Party", which gathered 4.39 million viewers.[8] The episode finished second in its time slot, being beaten by Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.3 rating/9%.[7] The episode beat the Fox series Touch and The CW drama series The Secret Circle, as well as a re-run of the CBS drama Person of Interest. Despite this, "Angry Andy" was the highest-rated NBC television episode of the night.[7]
Critical reception to the episode was largely mixed. Myles McNutt of The A.V. Club awarded the entry a "C" and thoroughly criticized Nellie's "hostile takeover" of the Scranton branch, calling it "utterly ridiculous".[9] McNutt also called most of the humorous moments in the episode "too familiar", noting that Andy's punching of a wall had already happened on the show.[9] Cindy White of IGN gave the episode a 7.5 out of 10, denoting a "good" episode, but noted that the show's need to feature a direct flash back to "The Return" only "highlights the lack of [Andy's] character continuity" and concluded that the scene came out "a bit contrived."[10]
M. Giant from Television Without Pity awarded the episode a "C+".[11] Joseph Kratzer of WhatCulture! gave the episode a largely negative review and awarded it two stars out of five. He criticized the plot invoking Nellie taking the manager position away, as well as Erin's outburst, saying "it was warranted but disingenuous".[12] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode three-and-a-half-stars out of five and noted that the return of Andy's anger issues was a "pleasant change of pace".[13] He concluded that the episode's physical comedy elevated it, ultimately making it "certainly an improvement on last week's episode ['Welcome Party']".[13] Screencrave reviewer Jeffrey Hyatt awarded the episode a seven out ten but noted that Andy's return and his meltdown "didn't wow me", but that his increased ego was impressive.[14]
Critical reception to the episode's subplot involving Kelly and Ryan was largely positive. McNutt called Novak's acting "some of [his] best work in a long time".[9] He called the plot’s conclusion "the sort of screwed up situation that The Office does well".[9] White wrote that "If it weren't for [Kelly and Ravi's] story ... I might have written this clumsy episode off entirely."[10] Forcella enjoyed the plot, praising the ending due to the fact that it concluded with "boos and hisses".[13] However, he was confused with the casting, noting that "why bring Sendhil Ramamurthy in for one scene? ... He seems more like someone you bring in for a multi-episode arc."[13] Hyatt lauded the scenes, and wrote "the Ryan-Kelly stuff I give a 10/10."[14]


"Andy's Play" is the third episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 129th episode overall. Written by Charlie Grandy and directed by John Stuart Scott, the episode aired on NBC in the United States on October 7, 2010. Guest stars include Robert Mammana, Phil Abrams and Robert R. Shafer.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) lands a role in a local production of Sweeney Todd and invites the entire office to the performance, hoping to impress his former girlfriend, Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper). While Michael Scott (Steve Carell) struggles to put his jealousy aside, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) have trouble with their less-than-stellar babysitter, Erin.
Originally, the producers and writers wanted the in-show musical to be performed badly, but they later changed their minds and decided that the musical should be quality work, according to Helms. The episode featured several guest actors and actresses to round out the parts in the musical. "Andy's Play" was viewed by 6.95 million viewers and received a 3.5 rating among adults between the age of 18 and 49, marking a slight drop in the ratings when compared to the previous week. Despite this, the episode was the highest-ranked NBC series of the night and received positive reviews from critics.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) is going to perform as Anthony Hope in a local production of Sweeney Todd, and he wants his co-workers to come. He makes a special effort to invite Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), whom he hopes to win back with a good performance, by buying tickets for her and Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods). Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is especially hard to convince, since he is still upset that he was not chosen to be in the musical after his own audition. Andy informs him that no one auditioning got the part of Sweeney Todd, which was instead given to a veteran "world class" actor, and Michael agrees to go. Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) say they want to go, but have been unable to find a babysitter for their daughter Cece. Erin agrees to come, but she later decides to babysit Cece so Pam and Jim can attend instead.
On the night of the show, Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) reads from the program that contrary to Andy's assumption, the actor (Robert Mammana) playing Sweeney Todd has no acting or singing experience, and was discovered by the director while singing karaoke, annoying Michael. During the intermission, the director compliments Michael on the "energy" of his audition and encourages him to audition again, suggesting that he felt that Sweeney Todd simply was not the right production for Michael's acting style. Put out by this, Michael steals a bottle of wine from the concessions table, which he and his co-workers drink during the show. Andy, upset that Erin is not in the audience, repeatedly checks for messages from her on his cell phone. While he is on stage, his phone rings in his pocket, disrupting the musical and forcing the performers to improvise. To make matters worse, Michael drops his bottle of wine, causing a commotion as it rolls down through the rows of seats. He then loses grip of balloons he brought to his seat, which pop as they hit the top of the hall. This startles a baby, and the sound of her cries alerts Jim and Pam to the fact that Erin came to the play with Cece, exciting Andy, but angering Jim and Pam. At the end of the show, everyone cheers except for Michael, who angrily boos the actor playing Sweeney Todd. Later, in a kind of retaliation, Darryl starts to boo Michael in the middle of a conversation whenever he speaks.
Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), having found a loophole in her parenting contract with Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) which permits him to develop romantic feelings for her, attempts to attract him. She uses another technicality in the contract to force him to take her to Andy's play as a date, and wears uncharacteristically revealing clothing. But when Dwight becomes lustful, Angela rebuffs him and insists that they count the date as one of their five required instances of sexual intercourse before leaving. Meanwhile, Andy and Erin chat backstage, and Erin states how happy she is that they are spending time together outside of the Office again. However they are interrupted by Gabe calling Erin, and she leaves to meet him. As Andy sulks backstage, his co-workers arrive and cheer him up by encouraging him to sing a rendition of Macy Gray's "I Try" while Darryl accompanies him on piano.
There was a discussion of, like, 'Maybe [the musical] should be bad because it's a community theater … But then we started asking, why? 'Why aren't there good actors in Scranton, Pennsylvania? Why can't they be capable community theater actors?' … So we wound up going in that direction..
—Ed Helms, on the quality of the in-series musical.[2]"Andy's Play" was written by supervising producer Charlie Grandy, his fifth writing credit for the show. The episode was directed by John Stuart Scott, his first and only directing credit for the show.[3] With the seventh season of The Office being Carell's last, the writers decided to divide the season into two distinct halves; the first half would "celebrate Carell's final year and highlight different actors on the show", whereas the second half would focus on his departure and the search for a new manager. As such, "Andy's Play" was one of the first episode of the season to specifically highlight "potential heirs to the throne", in this case Ed Helms' character, Andy.[4]
According to Helms, the original script called for the musical numbers to be "slaughtered" by the actors and actresses. However, as the episode was being finalized, the producers decided for the cast to "perform razor-sharp renditions" of the songs instead.[2] Due to the ensemble nature of the musical featured in the episode, guest actors and actresses were required. Actor Robert Mammana portrayed Mitchel Walsh, who played the title role in the play within the play. Heather Marie Marsden played Mrs. Lovett, Maxwell Glick appeared as Tobias, and Phil Abrams appeared as Shelby Thomas Weems, the musical's director.[3]
The Season Seven DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Andy discussing the "crowd dynamic" at musicals and music events, Gabe discussing his history of playing Ichabod Crane in three separate play productions, Pam and Jim discussing how hard it is to get a babysitter, Michael ordering flowers, Andy getting a pep talk from his director, Phyllis worrying about Cynthia and Bob bonding, and Kevin talking to his sister who happens to be playing a part in the musical.[5]
The songs featured in the episode from the actual Sweeney Todd musical are "The Ballad of Sweeney Todd", "Johanna", and "By the Sea".[2] Erin accidentally references The Baby-Sitters Club, a series of novels by Ann M. Martin, when talking about breaking into the babysitting business in Scranton.[6] Michael brings balloons to the musical, Phyllis notes that they remind her of the 2009 Pixar film Up.[7] Jim mentions that trying to put CeCe to sleep reminds him of the 2008 war film The Hurt Locker. The ending scene features Michael auditioning for the musical by re-acting an entire episode of the American police procedural and legal drama television series Law & Order, complete with opening monologue, theme music, and the show's notable "Clang" sound effect. Andy sings Macy Gray's single "I Try" with the rest of the office to cheer himself up at the end of the episode.[8]
"Andy's Play" first aired on October 7, 2010.[9] In its original American broadcast, it was viewed by an estimated 6.95 million viewers with a 3.5 rating/10 percent share among adults between the age of 18 and 49. This means that 3.5 percent of all 18- to 49-year-old households watched the episode, and ten percent of that demographic had their televisions tuned to the channel at any point.[10] This marked a 0.2 rating decrease from the previous weeks episode,[10][11] although the episode ranked second in its time slot and was the highest-rated NBC series of the night.[10]
This episode received mostly positive reviews from critics. James Poniewozik of Time magazine wrote that, "'Andy's Play' was the kind of strong, character driven episode I've missed from the show—not just good by later season standards but an actual good Office episode, period."[12] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic wrote that the episode was a reminder of "what has always been great about this show".[13] Alan Sepinwall of HitFix wrote that the episode "worked largely because it embraced [the] idea" that "the bonds you form at work go deeper than carpet, and that if you work with people long enough they can feel like your family." He ultimately concluded that the episode was one that "makes me happy [that] I spent an evening in the company of these goofballs."[8]
Myles McNutt of The A.V. Club gave the episode a "B+", stating that it was "inconclusive" proof whether or not Andy could be the show's lead, in advance of Steve Carell's exit from the series, but that "in terms of providing entertainment, I think the episode worked quite well" and was "honest and charming".[6] Vulture writer Phoebe Reilly was slightly critical of Apple product placements—Ryan's iPad and Andy's iPhone—but found the use of the second "still funny: the signature chirp of Andy's iPhone interrupts a scene, prompting him to pretend it's a bird that he has to silence by saying, 'He's gone to sleep now. I've closed his beak.'"[14]
Many reviews commented upon Andy's phone-interrupted onstage scene.[6][13][14] Poniewozik praised "Andy’s flop-sweat attempt to improvise his way out of his cellphone's going off while running up against the limits of what his character knows about Sweeney", calling it "hilarious".[12] Forcella was complimentary towards "the awkward moment when his phone didn't stop ringing and [Andy] had to explain it on stage", noting that it had "brilliant timing and execution".[13]



"Ben Franklin" is the fifteenth episode of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's forty-third episode overall. Written by Mindy Kaling, who also acts in the show as Kelly Kapoor, and directed by Randall Einhorn, the episode first aired in the United States on February 1, 2007, on NBC.  "Ben Franklin" received 5.0/13 in the ages 18–49 demographic of the Nielsen ratings, and was watched by an estimated audience of 10.1 million viewers,[1] and the episode received mixed reviews among critics.
In the episode, the employees from the office prepare for Phyllis Lapin's (Phyllis Smith) wedding. Michael Scott (Steve Carell), acting under advice from Todd Packer (David Koechner), instructs Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) to hire a stripper for the men and delegates Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) to hire one for the women. While Dwight hires a stripper, Jim ends up hiring a Ben Franklin impersonator (Andy Daly) instead.
The office plays host to a bridal shower for Phyllis Lapin (Phyllis Smith) while Bob Vance's (Robert R. Shafer) bachelor party is held in the warehouse. Though Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is aware that the company's sexual harassment policy forbids strippers in the workplace, Todd Packer (David Koechner) convinces him that it is okay to hire a stripper for the bachelor party if he also gets a male stripper for the bridal shower. After Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) admitted to Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) in the previous episode that he still has feelings for Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), interactions between the three become increasingly tense.
Michael delegates the hiring of the strippers to Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Jim. While Dwight locates a stripper named Elizabeth (Jackie Debatin) for Bob Vance's party, Jim orders an educational Benjamin Franklin impersonator (Andy Daly) as a joke. Pam and Karen have fun gently heckling the impersonator. Jim tells Dwight that the impersonator is the real Ben Franklin. Dwight says he's "99% sure" this is not so but asks questions to the impersonator that he believes only the real Ben Franklin would know, such as who was the King of Austria (Joseph II) and who was the King of Prussia (Frederick William III). The well-practiced impersonator answers each question correctly without hesitation, much to Dwight's anger and disbelief. In the break room, Karen confronts Pam about Jim and Pam's kiss and asks if she is still interested in Jim. Made nervous by the questioning, Pam uses misleading wording, babbles uncontrollably, and at the end of the conversation blurts out "I'm sorry." Karen finds her behavior baffling but not suspicious.
At the bachelor party, Bob Vance refuses a lap dance, so Michael volunteers. During the lap dance, Michael becomes concerned that this is cheating on Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) and brings the show to an abrupt close. Dwight decides to get the three hours of work they paid the stripper for by having her answer calls. After consulting with "Ben Franklin" and the stripper, Michael decides to tell Jan about the lap dance. However, Jan is less upset by his unfaithfulness to her than by his violation of company policy. Relieved, Michael makes lovey dovey talk to Jan even as she suggests firing him over the incident.
The Benjamin Franklin impersonator flirts with Pam at her desk. Jim hears about this and teasingly asks if things are getting serious. This makes Pam embarrassed by her lack of a boyfriend, and she asks Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) to set her up with one of his friends from business school.
"Ben Franklin" was the second episode of the series directed by Randall Einhorn. Einhorn had previously directed "Initiation", as well as the summer spin-off webisodes "The Accountants". "Ben Franklin" was written by Mindy Kaling, who acts on the show as customer service representative Kelly Kapoor. The episode was the sixth of the series written by Kaling.
Jackie Debatin, who appeared in "Ben Franklin" as Elizabeth, is used to playing strippers and hookers. Debatin had previously been a stripper on Friends, a stripper on That '70s Show, a stripper on Two and a Half Men, a madam on Veronica Mars, and a call girl on Boston Legal. In an interview, Debatin said playing Elizabeth was "probably the best experience I have had in TV work", because the cast and crew were "down to earth, fun, grateful to be there".[2] Although actor Andrew Daly, who played Gordon the Ben Franklin impersonator, had already known John Krasinski, Angela Kinsey, B. J. Novak and Kate Flannery, he said that The Office cast and crew "could not have been more welcoming to me". Daly especially liked it when the actors "depart[ed] from the script and improvised a little".[3] Before filming, Daly mistakenly believed the show was mostly improvised and studied the Wikipedia article on Benjamin Franklin, but his studying paid off: during filming of Dwight's interrogation of the impersonator, Rainn Wilson improvised a question about whether Benjamin Franklin was nearsighted or farsighted. Daly was immediately prepared with the response, "Both, that's why I invented the bifocals." This scene made it into the final episode.[4]
"Ben Franklin" received 5.0/13 in the ages 18–49 demographic of the Nielsen ratings. This means that five percent of all households with an 18- to 49-year-old living in it watched the episode, and 13 percent had their television tuned to the channel at any point. The episode was watched by an estimated audience of 10.1 million viewers.[1] "Ben Franklin" is one of only a handful of other episodes of The Office to reach over 10 million viewers, the others being the show's pilot episode, "The Injury," "Traveling Salesmen," "The Return," and "Stress Relief," of which the latter reached over 20 million viewers.
"Ben Franklin" received mixed, but mostly good, reviews from critics. IGN's Brian Zoromski wrote that "The Office  was in truly excellent form this week." Zoromski went on to credit the "great progression" in the Jim-Pam-Karen love triangle and Michael being "his completely inept self" as parts of the episode that made it "one of the best Office episodes this season".[5] Michael Sciannamea of TV Squad was less enthusiastic about the episode, writing that although it was "solid", "not much happened here other than the Jim-Karen-Pam triangle."[6]  Abby West, of Entertainment Weekly, praised the love triangle, saying "The Pam/Karen confrontation was as uncomfortable as I could possibly hope for. It's so gratifying to see Pam's armor cracking."  West also praised the work of the supporting cast.[7]


"Employee Transfer" is the sixth episode of the fifth season of the American version of the television series The Office and the show's seventy-eighth episode overall. It was broadcast in the United States on October 30, 2008, on NBC.
In this episode, Michael struggles with the fact that his girlfriend Holly is being transferred back to her old branch in Nashua, New Hampshire, after CFO David Wallace discovers their relationship. Meanwhile, Pam and Jim's two brothers play a prank on Jim, and Dwight irritates his romantic rival Andy by taking an interest in Andy's old school, Cornell University.
Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) is embarrassed when she is the only person at corporate wearing a costume on Halloween. Pam's costume is Charlie Chaplin and it cannot be removed since her mustache was applied with grease paint and removing the hat makes her look like Adolf Hitler. In Scranton, numerous employees dress in odd costumes, with Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton), Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) all dressing up as Heath Ledger's version of the Joker from 'The Dark Knight.' Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) costume is minimalistic as usual, dressing up as a guy named "Dave" (a costume consisting of his normal attire, with a name tag).
Holly Flax (Amy Ryan) has been transferred back to her old branch in Nashua, New Hampshire after CFO David Wallace discovered her relationship with Michael Scott (Steve Carell). Michael and Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) help her move using Darryl's truck. Michael and Holly want to continue their relationship, but as they get closer to Nashua, Holly believes that their relationship is not going to work with the long distance. Michael begs her to keep their relationship alive as he fears he will go back to Jan Levinson. Michael had intended to spend the weekend with Holly before heading back to Scranton, but after they move her stuff into her new house, he changes his mind and heads back with Darryl. Michael and Holly share a last embrace before he leaves. In the truck, Darryl tries to console Michael by teaching him to sing the blues. Michael does not understand, but is cheered up nonetheless.
Jim meets Pam in New York for lunch with his brothers, Tom (Blake Robbins) and Pete (Tug Coker). Pam, Tom, and Pete arrive early to discuss a prank Pam wants to play on Jim that involves her engagement ring. Tom and Pete, however, think of playing a prank which detriments her interest in art. When Jim arrives, Tom and Pete begin mocking Pam's interest in art, and Jim continuously comes to her defense. When the argument becomes heated, Tom and Pete reveal it was a prank, and Jim and Pam stare awkwardly at each other. Later, when Jim and Pam are walking outside of the restaurant, Pam explains her original idea for the prank, which Jim appreciates much more than his brothers' idea. Moments later, Jim receives a text message from his brothers stating their approval of Pam and welcoming her to the family.
In Scranton, Dwight comes in wearing a Cornell sweatshirt, which irritates Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), who thinks Dwight is mocking him. Dwight tells him that he is going to apply to Cornell, and installs a Cornell pennant and a Cornell mascot bobblehead in his area. Dwight privately reveals to the camera that though he is indeed applying, he is only doing so to mock Andy, jealous of his engagement to Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey). In retaliation, Andy calls the university and is given permission to give Dwight his interview for admission. Andy has no intention of allowing Dwight to pass, and during the interview, Dwight notices inconsistencies with Andy's questions (such as asking who was Cornell's 8th president, which Dwight answers correctly as Dale R. Corson, but Andy replies with Cornell's 7th president James A. Perkins). He writes down critiques of Andy's interviewing skills, which he tells him he is going to send to the university. Dwight and Andy record numerous insults, culminating with Dwight saying he will apply to the "vastly superior Dartmouth". After a heated physical struggle with the conference room table, Andy gives up. The next day, Andy comes into the office in overalls, a farmer's hat, and a basket of beets, saying he is starting his own beet farm, in an attempt to mock Dwight. Dwight, however, is quick to point out Andy's lack of knowledge of beets.
Creed, Dwight and Kevin all dress in the style of Heath Ledger's performance as The Joker in the 2008 film, The Dark Knight. Creed Bratton (the actor) said of his costume, "I worked pretty hard to get him down. A lot of people said it was really eerie and kind of uncomfortable."[1]
Holly's transfer to Nashua ranked number 4 in phillyBurbs.com's top ten moments from the fifth season of The Office.[2] However, "Employee Transfer" was voted the fourth lowest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 7.20 out of 10.[3]
Reviews were mixed. Though CinemaBlend called the episode "weird" and the opening Halloween party "hilarious", it discussed at some length Holly and Michael's road trip with Darryl, which became a "painful breakup process" for the couple, with "poor Darryl" forced to listen to Michael begging not to break up.[4]  IGN gave the episode a grade of 8.4 ("Great"), and described Steve Carell as adding "another dimension" to his character. Noting "a bunch of great moments" during the truck road trip, IGN singled out Darryl trying to teach Michael how to sing the blues as he "both laughs and cries" as taking "the prize" and "a pitch perfect moment and a beautiful scene".[5] Adam Sweeney of Film School Rejects wrote, "The strength of the episode came, not surprisingly, in the road trip Michael, Holly, and Darryl (Craig Robinson) took to move Holly following her transfer. There is nothing more entertaining than a man that is desperate not to lose his girlfriend." But Sweeney concluded that it "may have been the weakest episode of season five".[6]
In a later review in TheTVCritic.org, Robin Pierson wrote "Michael and Holly’s break-up is all too real and brings forth some excellent acting from both. Michael breaking down and crying and admitting that he will go back to Jan and that he hates her is particularly effective. Without any context his whiny voice might seem like overacting but it feels like the embodiment of Michael Scott and is very moving to hear."[7]

"Ultimatum" is the thirteenth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 139th episode overall. Written by Carrie Kemper, and directed by David Rogers, the episode first aired in the United States on January 20, 2011 on NBC.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees at the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictitious Dunder Mufflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) attempts to court Holly Flax (Amy Ryan) after her relationship with A.J. (Rob Huebel) seemingly ends as a result of an ultimatum that he propose to her by the end of the year. Meanwhile, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) starts a New Year's resolution initiative at the office, but her coworkers struggle to keep their resolutions or find motivation to do so.
The episode achieved a viewership of 8.29 million during its initial airing in the United States, according to Nielsen Media Research.[1] John Krasinski's Jim Halpert was only seen in the episode's cold open, and does not appear in the rest of the episode.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) anticipates news regarding the status of Holly Flax (Amy Ryan) and A.J.'s (Rob Huebel) relationship, after Holly's ultimatum that A.J. propose to her by the end of the year. To prepare for either outcome, Michael fills a "happy box" with celebration treats and a "sad box" with consolation items, as well as two videos of himself to be used to calm himself down should he get too excited or too depressed. When Michael sees no ring on Holly's finger, he is at first ecstatic, and launches into celebration in his office. When he approaches Holly to talk, however, Holly receives a phone call from A.J., during which she tells him she loves him. Michael finds out later, through Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) and Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), that Holly caved on the ultimatum and that she and A.J. are still together.
Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer), inspired by the cheerful office administrator from Vance Refrigeration, puts up a New Year's Resolution board in the office so everyone can post their resolutions. These include Michael resolving to floss, Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) resolving to eat more vegetables, Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) resolving to "live life like it's an art project," and Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) resolving to do a cartwheel. When Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) reveals his resolution is to "meet a loose woman", he goes out on the town along with fellow single men Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), in the hopes of meeting some women. Darryl suggests they try a bookstore, actually wanting to fulfill his own resolution to "read more" by purchasing an e-book reader.
Still upset about Holly, Michael interrupts Pam's resolution-board meeting to chastise his employees for giving up on their resolutions, taking out his frustration on Kevin by force-feeding him broccoli as well as berating Creed for not attempting a cartwheel. Holly sees the parallel Michael is making between these abandoned resolutions and her own abandoned ultimatum, and abruptly leaves the room, visibly upset. Michael attempts to apologize to Holly, but she declines to talk. Michael has her join Kevin and Creed in his office so he can apologize to the two of them, simultaneously apologizing to Holly indirectly. Holly is later caught by the cameras telling A.J. that she wants to take a break from their relationship at least until she returns to Nashua.
As the new year's resolutions get out of hand, Pam tosses the resolution board into a dumpster, saying she has learned her lesson.
The episode was written by Carrie Kemper, the sister of cast member Ellie Kemper, her first writing credit on the series. It was directed by David Rogers, his third directing credit; Rogers also serves as an editor for the series.
Jim is only present during the cold open. He is then absent without explanation for the rest of the episode. In a deleted scene, his voice is heard when he talks to Pam on the phone as he is driving to make a sale. In real life, John Krasinski was filming Big Miracle in Alaska during filming of the episode.
In its original American broadcast on January 20, 2011, "Ultimatum" was viewed by an estimated 8.29 million viewers and received a 4.5 rating/12% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, reaching a season-high for the demo and increasing in more than a million viewers from the previous episode.[1] In Canada, the episode was watched by 212,000 viewers, the lowest watched program of the night.[2]


"Heavy Competition" is the twenty-fourth episode of the fifth season of the television series The Office and the 96th overall episode of the series. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on April 16, 2009. In the episode, Michael enlists the help of Dwight in getting Michael's new paper company off the ground, but the two eventually end up engaging in a war for each other's clients. Meanwhile, Jim pretends to be afraid of his future with Pam to play a prank on Andy, who is still reeling over his recent break up with Angela.
The episode was written by Ryan Koh and directed by Ken Whittingham. It included a guest appearance by Idris Elba, who played new Dunder Mifflin vice president Charles Miner. The episode received generally positive reviews, and was voted the fourth best episode of the season in a poll at the fan site OfficeTally. According to Nielsen ratings, it was watched by 8.24 million viewers, and was the most watched program among viewers aged between 18 and 49.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) have been having secret meetings in the parking lot, where Dwight provides information about Dunder Mifflin so Michael can undercut the company. However, Dwight's loyalty is put to the test as Charles Miner (Idris Elba) seems to show more respect for Dwight than Michael ever did. Dwight brings Charles to the parking lot during one of the secret meetings, where Charles orders Michael to stop pestering Dwight. This begins a rivalry between Michael and Dwight, and Michael begins to steal Dwight's clients. Dwight asks for a truce and offers to take Michael and his employees out to lunch; Dwight does not go to the restaurant and instead sneaks into the empty Michael Scott Paper Company office and steals everything on Michael's desk, including his Rolodex contact list, and places a dead fish in the air conditioning vent.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) are attempting to get bargain deals on wedding plans from Andy Bernard (Ed Helms). When Pam turns down his ideas, Andy suspects that Pam might be acting controlling and cruelly to Jim, in the same way Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) treated Andy. Andy warns Jim, who tries to convince Andy that he and Pam are really happy. Andy remains convinced that Pam will betray him, so Jim asks Andy to provide for his emotional needs (as a prank). After Jim feigns crying on Andy's shoulder, Andy blames the office for Jim's emotional troubles and asks them to apologize. Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) tells Andy that Jim is just messing with him. Andy does not believe her until he sees Jim grinning through the kitchen window. When Andy confronts Jim, Jim assures him that he and Pam are really happy and that Andy will find someone else one day.
Michael, Pam, and Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) return to their office and believe they have been robbed. Dwight calls and reveals his treachery. Michael calls Dwight on the phone and tells Dwight he is going to steal his biggest client while he listens. Dwight races to the HarperCollins office, where Michael and Dwight start fighting over the client, Daniel Schofield (Bob Gebert). Mr. Schofield asks for both of their offers via email, and they agree to do so. Before leaving, Dwight then looks at Daniel's personal information from Michael's Rolodex card and asks him about his "gay son", which seemingly perturbs Daniel. Michael reveals his unusual system where he color codes personal information about his contacts so he knows what not to talk about. Michael is seen laughing with Daniel in the parking lot as Dwight returns to his car alone.
"Heavy Competition" was written by Ryan Koh and directed by Ken Whittingham. It was the fifth of six episodes guest starring Idris Elba, best known as Stringer Bell from The Wire. Elba said he did not watch the episode after it aired because "I'm hypercritical about my work, so I try not to torture myself."[1] Rainn Wilson said he liked the episode because it demonstrated growth for his character and the relationship between Michael and Dwight; he said "I like the way they let characters grow and change on the show,"[2] and said of his character, "It's not the same acolyte ass kissing as season 2".[2] Wilson said the moment Dwight spun around the HarperCollins secretary saying "Spin move", which was included in the script, was one of the most popular moments of the episode among the writers. Wilson said of filming the move, "We did like five spin moves and once I did a somersault. I thought I was being all nimble and quick, but no. I watch it and it looks like a manatee doing ballet at SeaWorld."[2]
Immediately after "Heavy Competition" first aired, NBC created a sub-page on their official "Angela and Andy" wedding site with the full version of Andy's "You Can Call Me Al" a cappella song, as well as an advertisement for their $9,000 wedding performances, both of which were featured in the episode itself.[3] The official website for The Office included two cut scenes from "Heavy Competition". In the first 45-second clip, Michael tries to justify his use of Dwight for leads and Ryan expresses anger when Dwight steals his uncle's dry cleaning company as a client, leading Pam to mock the idea that Ryan cares about anyone but himself and Michael to intercede when Ryan in turn calls Pam a "hag".[4] In the second 50-second clip, Andy tries to sell Jim and Pam a Christian cross-shaped cake from his failed wedding with Angela, and Jim tells Andy he believes the whole office is against him.[5]
Michael, Pam and Ryan have lunch at Alfredo's Pizza Café, a reference to the restaurant first referenced in the fourth season episode "Launch Party". Andy presents a recording of his a cappella group singing Pachelbel's Canon segueing into the Paul Simon song "You Can Call Me Al". Dwight said under Michael's leadership, the office was like the Roman Empire, the Wild West, war-torn Poland, and Poland all at once. Andy vows to be Jim's "traveling pants", a reference to the young adult novel series The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants. Dwight describes Charles as "Will Smith-esque", a reference to the American film actor.[6] Michael and Dwight both court HarperCollins, an American publishing company, as a prospective paper client.[7]
In its original American broadcast on April 16, 2009, "Heavy Competition" was watched by 8.24 million viewers, according to Nielsen ratings. It captured a 5.5 rating[8]/11 share among viewers aged between 18 and 49, making it the most watched episode of the night among that age group. Additionally, the episode captured a 4.5 rating/14 share among viewers aged between 18 and 34.[9]
"Holy smokes, I thought this episode was great: Funny, silly, but substantively grounded in what we know about these characters and our understanding that their world and our world are one and the same. Hear that? It was my satisfied sigh."
Margaret Lyons,Entertainment Weekly[6]The episode received generally positive reviews. Margaret Lyons of Entertainment Weekly said she loved the chemistry between Michael and Dwight, and enjoyed the direction the Michael Scott Paper Company plot was going. She also liked the bond that was forming between Jim and Andy, and said Ed Helms was particularly good in "Heavy Competition".[6] Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger called the episode "just an awful lot of fun", and wrote having Michael and Dwight at odds with each other "forced both characters to be just human enough for the story and the jokes to breathe". Sepinwall did not enjoy the Jim and Andy subplot, except for the final moment when Jim comforted Andy.[10] Will Leitch of New York magazine said, "This might have been the funniest Rainn Wilson has been in an episode all season, and that's saying something." Leitch also said B. J. Novak was particularly funny, and said he enjoyed being reminded that Michael is an excellent salesman.[7]
Travis Fickett of IGN said the new paper company continued to serve as a good change for the series, and the Michael and Dwight rivalry was a "fun development, and it feels as though the writers are taking great advantage of the [storyline]".[11] Steve Mullen praised the episode not only for the Michael/Dwight war, but also for smaller moments like the cheese puff tosses and the messages Pam and Ryan wrote on a clipboard for Michael during his phone call; Mullen said, "I'm not sure any other 30 minute comedy currently on TV can even touch The Office."[12] Amy Stetts of The Express-Times said the Michael Scott Paper Company plot "peaked" with this episode, and she genuinely could not predict how the storyline would end.[13]
Not all reviews were positive. Although Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club said the cheese puffs scene was "one of the most awesome cold opens in recent memory", he also said "Heavy Competition" was "one of the weakest episodes of the Idris Elba cycle". Rabin also said Jim's treatment of Andy was mean-spirited and unfunny: "Jim tried to spin it into a character-building lesson for Andy but it left a bad taste all the same."[14]
In her list of the top ten moments from the fifth season of The Office, phillyBurbs.com writer Jen Wielgus ranked Michael's formation of the Michael Scott Paper Company in the downstairs storage closet as number one, citing the "Dream Team", "Michael Scott Paper Company" and "Heavy Competition" episodes in particular. She also said she specifically enjoyed the cheese puff tossing scene, and the moment when Dwight dropped his clothes to show he was not wearing a wire, both scenes from "Heavy Competition".[15] "Heavy Competition" was voted the fourth highest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 8.66 out of 10.[16]



"Turf War" is the twenty-third and penultimate episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 175th episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC on May 3, 2012. "Turf War" was written by Warren Lieberstein and Halsted Sullivan, and was directed by Daniel Chun. The episode guest stars Chris Bauer, Andy Buckley, and Dan Castellaneta.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Robert California (James Spader) drunkenly shuts down a branch in Binghamton, and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) must outsmart a salesman, Harry Jannerone (Chris Bauer), from the Syracuse branch. Meanwhile, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) decides to land an important client as a "rogue" and jumpstart his Dunder Mifflin comeback by using his success as leverage with Robert.
"Turf War" received mixed reviews from critics, with many criticizing the show's decision to recycle elements of the Michael Scott Paper Company fifth season story arc. "Turf War" was viewed by an estimated 4.44 million viewers and received a 2.3 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode ranked third in its timeslot and was also the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) argue over whose workout regimen is superior. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) suggests they have a thigh curl contest to settle the argument. During the contest, Jim props their elbows up on pillows and tricks them into thinking they each have phone calls, then takes a picture, editing it as a computer wallpaper to make it look like Gabe and Dwight have had a gossipy sleepover. Dwight and Gabe are angered that Jim is mocking them for “perfecting [their] bodies,” but can’t properly walk to the conference room, forcing Dwight to have Jim support him.
While "celebrating the finalization of his divorce", Robert California (James Spader) drunkenly shuts down the Binghamton branch of Dunder Mifflin. The resulting commotion allows the sales team in Scranton, specifically Jim and Dwight, to begin poaching former customers of the closed branch. Harry Jannerone (Chris Bauer), an angry employee from the Syracuse branch of Dunder Mifflin arrives in Scranton to berate Jim and Dwight for taking New York clients even though those particular clients are closer to Scranton than Syracuse. The two argue, dropping the name of a particularly large client, Prestige Direct Mail Solutions, that is up for grabs. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), who is cooking lunch for everyone in the office, overhears the argument and gets an idea: if he can win the client, he might be able to use the account as leverage to get his job as manager back.
Andy rushes to Prestige Direct and impresses the CEO (Dan Castellaneta) with his dedication—in addition to his personal phone number, he also gives him a copy of his house key. Meanwhile, Dwight, Jim, and Harry rush to the company in an attempt to win the client, only to hear that the company has gone with Andy. After Andy wins the client, he calls Robert and offers him the client if Robert will re-hire him. Furious at his attempt to blackmail him, Robert profanely threatens Andy, and hangs up on him. This leads Andy to seek help from David Wallace (Andy Buckley), the former Chief Financial Officer of Dunder Mifflin who has become a multi-millionaire. Andy tells David that, despite being in poor shape, Dunder Mifflin could be worth twice its net worth if the company's management is restructured. This piques David's interest, who allows Andy to come into his home and talk to him about his business proposal.
After Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) reveals to Robert that he sent her a sexually suggestive voicemail, Robert tasks Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) with finding what the voicemail entailed. Initially, Pam tries to trick Nellie into divulging the contents of the message, but this plan is ruined when Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) shows up, claiming that she was Robert's "back-up plan" in case Pam failed. Finally, Pam steals Nellie's phone and brings it to Robert and the two listen to the various voice messages. After hearing several which paint a life for Nellie that is sad and lonely—she is unable to adopt a child and she has maxed out her credit cards—Pam relents and tells Robert that she will not help him anymore. Pam returns Nellie's phone and the two strike up a conversation. Nellie reveals to Pam her disgust for Robert, saying that he is sexually obsessed. She asks Pam if she wants to hear about Robert's voicemail, but Pam declines her offer. In the end, Nellie reveals to the camera that she is deeply moved to have a real friend at her work place.
After learning that they have lost Prestige Direct, Jim, Dwight and Harry retreat outside for a coffee break. They end up having a conversation over what they would do with their lives, if they were not working for Dunder Mifflin. Jim jokingly says that he would be a beet growing competitor during the national contests while Harry would retire after selling one big item such as an airplane. Before he leaves, Harry says that Robert will be the ruin of the company and suggests they will not be working for Dunder Mifflin in six months, leaving a look of concern on Dwight and Jim's faces.
"Turf War" was written by Warren Lieberstein and Halsted Sullivan, and was directed by Daniel Chun.[2] The episode features the second consecutive appearance of David Wallace (Andy Buckley), former CFO of Dunder Mifflin, after his reappearance in "Fundraiser.[3] Chris Bauer guest-starred in this episode as a rival branch manager who believes Dunder Mifflin Scranton is stealing their clients.[4] In addition, Dan Castellaneta guest-starred as the CEO of Prestige Direct Sale Solutions.[5] The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Dwight berating Jim for owning a plethora of baby supplies, Pam and Angela trying to extract information from Nellie, Darryl feeding a mouse he finds in the break room, Erin and Darryl arguing over the name of the mouse, and Harry talking about the "same drama and whack-ados" that work at his branch.[6]
In an attempt to stall, Robert talks to the camera at lengths about geishas, using bizarre and cryptic metaphors.[7] When Jim and Dwight are trying to outrun Harry, Dwight asks him if his car has a NOS, a reference to the 2001 film The Fast and the Furious.[5] Jim answers in the affirmative, but turns on the windshield wipers, to Dwight's disdain.[2] When Andy is trying to win over the CEO, he mentions that his wifi password is "eatpraylove", a reference to the book and movie of the same name.[8]
"Turf War" originally aired on NBC in the United States on May 3, 2012.[1] The episode was viewed by an estimated 4.44 million viewers and received a 2.3 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[9] This means that it was seen by 2.3% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[9] The episode marked a 10% increase from the previous week's episode, "Fundraiser".[10]  The episode finished third in its time slot, being beaten by Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.3 rating/9% share and the CBS drama Person of Interest which received a 2.5 rating/7% share in the 18–49 demographic.[9] The episode beat the Fox series Touch and The CW drama series The Secret Circle.[9] Despite this, "Turf War" was the highest-rated NBC television episode of the night.[9]
The episode received mixed reviews from critics. Dan Forcella from TV Fanatic gave the episode a largely positive review and awarded it four out of five stars. Forcella praised the Jim–Dwight dynamic in the episode and wrote, "Jim and Dwight, and especially the latter, were terrific."[11] In addition, Forcella positively compared the character growth of Nellie Bertam to Michael Scott, noting "the most heartwarming moment [was] her scene with Pam, in which Nellie was so happy to have made a friend, reminded me of so many Michael Scott moments of the past."[11] Brett Harrison Davinger from The California Literary Review wrote moderately positive of the episode, saying, "Tonight's episode worked for the most part thanks to the ever reliable Robert California and the usually reliable Jim and Dwight: Partners."[12] However, he did retroactively criticize season eight for not elaborating on the problems facing Dunder Mifflin until "Turf War". In addition, he called the premise of Andy seeking Wallace's help "iffy ... even if it was predictable".[12] Jeffrey Hyatt from ScreenCrave wrote, "The immediate, don't over-analyze opinion here is that 'Turf War' is a top three episode of season 8, with a chance of it being number one."[5] Furthermore, he concluded that the episode "was good, very good, and a nice way to get set for the season/series finale. ... The Office can still bring it when it wants to."[5]
Myles McNutt from The A.V. Club wrote a mixed review and gave it a C+. He noted that the episode's closing scene, wherein Jim, Dwight, and Harry talk about Robert California ruining the company, was an example of a retcon that "the shift to a world with actual consequences is certainly a step in the right direction for the series, and one that slightly elevates 'Turf War' if not the season as a whole."[7] However, McNutt was largely critical of the writing, noting that the closure of the Binghamton branch was a "cheap segue" that "render[ed] the show's characters as subservient to the narrative whims of the writers."[7] He argued—specifically citing the unconcernedness that the Scranton employees showed after hearing that a neighboring branch was shut down—that many of the characters' motives were not effective because they simply acted as ciphers, through which the larger plots could unfold.[7]
Several reviews were critical of Andy's paper company development. Many compared it, unfavorably, to the Michael Scott Paper Company fifth season story arc. Dyanamaria Leifsson from TV Equals wrote "Instead [of Andy making a mention to the Michael Scott Paper Company] the similarities were ignored and we were expected to treat this as a novel idea."[13] Craig McQuinn from The Faster Times sardonically wrote "remember how good the Michael Scott Paper Company storyline was?" a reference to the episode's reuse of an old and existing story arc.[14] In addition, several reviews criticized the cold opening. California Literary noted that, "The string of good, relatable cold opens ends tonight as Dwight and Gabe engage in a manliest man contest."[12] Myles McNutt called the scene "just nonsense".[7]


"Doomsday" is the sixth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 158th episode overall. The episode aired on NBC in the United States on November 3, 2011. "Doomsday" was written by Daniel Chun and directed by Troy Miller.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) programs a device that will fire all of the employees and effectively close down the branch if they make too many mistakes. Meanwhile, Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) attempts to court the new warehouse worker, Val.
"Doomsday" received mixed to positive reviews from critics, with some reviews critiquing the episode's resolution. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was viewed by 6.15 million viewers and received a 3.2 rating/8% share among adult between the ages of 18 and 49, marking an increase in the ratings from the previous episode. The episode ranked third in its time slot and was the highest-rated NBC show of the night.
Robert California (James Spader) confronts Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) about the number of mishaps and blunders made in the office, and gives him a firm directive to "simply end the mistakes." With no ideas on how to make this come about, Andy puts it in the hands of Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), who devises a system to find mistakes made by employees in the office. He programs an "accountability booster" that will forward incriminating emails to California if they make five mistakes in one day, effectively causing them to lose their jobs. The rest of the office are unhappy with Dwight's system, and call it a doomsday device. Despite their best efforts, the group manages to make five mistakes barely halfway through the first day with the system, and Dwight reveals that the emails will be automatically sent to California at 5:00 pm. Andy, along with the other office workers, pleads with Dwight to deactivate the system, but Dwight refuses, belittles the rest of the office staff for being so careless, and retreats to Schrute Farms.
The office formulates two plans to save their jobs. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) is tasked with tracking down Robert at a squash court and intercepting the emails before California has a chance to view them, while Andy, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer), Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) head to Schrute Farms, ostensibly to try to change Dwight's mind. However, Pam consistently silences any attempt to bring up the device, saying she knows Dwight and is confident that he will stop the device on his own. They give him a baseball hat as a present, which he promptly buries in a hole he is digging. After complimenting Dwight numerous times, helping him dig the hole, and having a small meal, Pam makes a joke that emphasizes that everyone is human and makes mistakes. Dwight is humored by the joke.
To justify his presence at the squash court, Jim claims to be a regular player and begins a match with Robert, demonstrating his complete lack of skill at squash and resulting in multiple injuries. He makes an unsuccessful attempt to access Robert's email from his phone, and finally resorts to trying to "accidentally" break his phone. However, when Robert checks his messages after 5:00, the e-mail has not come through. Realizing that Dwight must have stopped the device, Jim admits that he was obviously lying about being a squash player and prepares to leave, but Robert, apparently oblivious to Jim's statements, makes him stay and continue playing. Dwight insists that he doesn't like his co-workers, but is seen digging the hat back up.
Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) unsuccessfully tries to strike up a relationship with a new warehouse worker, Val (Ameenah Kaplan). After only making a passing comment, he attempts to file a relationship disclosure form, despite the fact that they aren't even dating. Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), observing Gabe's pitiful attempts, tries to imply that Val does not feel the same way, but to no avail. Gabe derides Darryl during Darryl's warehouse safety seminar, so Darryl intentionally screws up Gabe's coffee order. When Gabe does ask Val out, she politely declines and says she does not date co-workers. Darryl hears this and decides he will not pursue Val either.
The episode was written by co-executive producer Daniel Chun.[2] It was directed by Troy Miller, his second directing credit after the previous season's "Dwight K. Schrute, (Acting) Manager".[2][3] The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Jim explaining to the camera that he has never played squash, and then proceeds to convince Robert California to play another game, Gabe explaining his philosophy by saying that "he would throw any brother under the bus for any whore... woman", Stanley comparing Dwight's doomsday device to the Y2K bug, Jim and Pam arguing about whether or not Jim was there on the day Dwight fixed her computer, and Andy offering Robert California a pipe during a meeting that Dwight asks to be a part of.[4]
In its original American broadcast, "Doomsday" was viewed by an estimated 6.15 million viewers and received a 3.2 rating/8% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[5] This means that it was seen by 3.2% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 8% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked an increase in the ratings from the previous episode, "Spooked".[6] The episode ranked third in its timeslot beating Person of Interest which received a 2.7 rating/7% share in the 18–49 demographic and The Secret Circle which received a 0.9 rating/2% share, but was defeated by Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.6 rating/9% share and the season premiere of Bones which received a 3.3 rating/8% share.[5] A repeat of the episode on January 5, 2012 drew 2.61 million and received a 1.1 rating/3% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking fourth in its time slot, despite the episode being a rerun.[7][8]
The episode received mixed reviews. Several reviews wrote positively of the ensemble and character acting. Hannah Lawrence from Hollywood was happy with romance of the episode, writing "It seems clear that the writers are spending more time on characters finding love, and I actually enjoy it very much ... I suspect the writers are aware that ultimately what all of us want for the Dunder-Mifflin employees is love."[9] CliqueClack wrote positively of the episode, praising the ensemble acting, and wrote, "Overall, another solid ensemble episode. Way to go, The Office!"[10] Many other reviews compared the episode, either positively or negatively, to previous episodes. Jeffrey Hyatt from Screencrave gave the episode an 8/10 rating and wrote, "I'd say it was the strongest of the six episodes so far this season ... 'Doomsday' delivered that classic, Office formula where everything just works – and it feels so right."[11] Joseph Kratzer from WhatCulture awarded the episode 3-and-a-half stars out of five and compared it to the season's previous episodes, writing, "For a minute there I thought season eight of The Office was going to be some kind of subpar shut-out, but thankfully 'Doomsday' has lifted the series out of the rut it's been in ... I feel 'Doomsday' was successful because it captured a sense of ease and fluidity the show's been lacking severely since Michael's departure."[12]
Other reviews were more mixed, or simply referred to the episode as "decent". Jill Mader from InsidePulse called the episode "decent" noting that "[that is how the] season has been shaping up."[13] Dan Forcella from TVFanatic noted that the episode was not a "fantastic episode of The Office, but it had its funny moments, and that's what I tune in for."[14] The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt wrote "Doomsday" was not "a terrible episode by any means [but] the various pieces never fell into place, and the resolution didn't feel as though it was earned by the episode that came before it. It just felt like it was trying to do too much too quickly, never quite narrowing in on character in the midst of manufacturing chaos."[15] McNutt ultimately gave the episode a B−.[15] Despite some of the more mixed reviews, a large majority of critics found the cold-opening humorous, with many noting that it was the best of the season so far.[10][11][12][13][14][15]


"Lice" is the tenth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 186th episode overall. The episode was written by Niki Schwartz-Wright and directed by Rodman Flender. It originally aired on NBC on January 10, 2013. The episode guest stars Julius "Dr. J" Erving as himself.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) accidentally brings lice into the office but lets Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) take the fall, while Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) vows to destroy the parasites. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) spends a great day in Philadelphia with a potential business associate (Erving); Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate), Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith), and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) interfere with Darryl Philbin's (Craig Robinson) love life.
"Lice" received mixed reviews from television critics; many reviewers enjoyed the emphasis the episode placed on Flannery's character, although others felt the story did not work. The episode was also viewed by 4.54 million viewers and received a 2.2/6 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking third in its timeslot. The episode ultimately ranked as the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) finds managing her household without her husband Jim (John Krasinski) to be more difficult than anticipated, as she struggles with duties such as taking out the trash. Her already frazzled condition worsens when she finds lice on her daughter Cece, leaving her no choice but to wash all the fabric in the house. At work the next day, she notices Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) frantically scratching her head, and realizes she may have transferred the lice from Cece to the office. She initiates an investigation and Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), who experienced numerous lice infestations as a child in foster care, finds that all of the employees except Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate), Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith), and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) have lice. Given her disregard for cleanliness, the employees assume Meredith is responsible; Pam defends her but neglects to admit her guilt. To eliminate the lice, Meredith shaves her head. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) also overreacts, donning a hazmat suit and accidentally exposing himself to a hallucinogenic bug bomb that causes him to faint.
On Erin's advice, the other infected employees pair up to put mayonnaise on each other's hair to suffocate the lice, which allows Pete Miller (Jake Lacy) and Erin to spend time together and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) to prank Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) in retaliation for his affair with her husband. Pam's mother calls to inform her that Cece still has lice; the other staff overhear and realize Pam is responsible for the lice infestation, much to Meredith's delight.
Jim goes to Philadelphia to meet with a potential investor in his sports marketing company; the investor is none other than Julius "Dr. J" Erving, a personal hero of Jim's. Being sensitive to how difficult it must be to manage the house and kids by herself, Jim does not tell her who the investor is during their phone conversations and pretends to be stressed over the meeting; Pam, in turn, affects to be having no problems so that she will not add to Jim's supposed stress. Back at the office, Pam apologizes to Meredith, and the two go out for a beer. While at the bar, Pam tells Meredith—who is a single parent—she now realizes how hard it is to handle children without a husband. The two bond throughout the night, singing a karaoke version of Girls Just Want to Have Fun.
The uninfected workers are sent down to the warehouse to avoid contracting lice. Darryl had recently manipulated the warehouse foreman Val (Ameenah Kaplan) into breaking up with him because he wanted to have a new start when he moves to Philadelphia for his job at Jim's new sports marketing company. Darryl tells the others about this and feigns heartbreak to gain their sympathy and appear that the breakup was not his choice. Nellie, Phyllis, and Kevin confront Val and try to convince her to take Darryl back, to no avail. However, when Kevin then asks out Val, she is so mortified at her apparent dating prospects that she decides to get back together with Darryl, much to his annoyance.
"Lice" was written by story editor Niki Schwartz-Wright, marking her debut writing credit for the series.[2] It was directed by Rodman Flender. This marked his second directorial effort for the series, after the earlier ninth season entry "The Whale".[2][3] As mentioned before, the episode guest starred Erving as himself.[4] In addition, "Lice" featured performances by Ameenah Kaplan, who reprised her role as Val; and Linda Purl as Pam's mother, whose voice was heard on the phone.[2] This is the third episode to not feature Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) or Clark (Clark Duke). Helms left the show temporarily in the season's sixth episode "The Boat" in order to film The Hangover Part III, whereas Duke left for a few episodes to film Kick-Ass 2.[5][6]
Kate Flannery did not actually shave her head for the episode. According to her Twitter account, make-up artist Ed French was responsible for the bald cap and Kim M. Ferry designed the shaved hair effect.[7] According to the actress, the prosthetics took three hours to apply. Afterwards, she joked that she has "newfound respect for the actors in Planet of the Apes!"[8]
The scenes at the end of the episode take place at The Bog; this is an actual bar in Scranton. In addition, the exterior shots were all actually filmed in Scranton. In order to secure permission, the series' production staff phoned the bar's co-owner, Brian Craig, and requested that the bar be featured on the show. Reportedly, parts of the scenes were filmed with an iPhone.[9]
Jim compares spending a day with Julius Erving to a hypothetical situation wherein Pam would spend the day with John Stamos.[10] Pam and Meredith bond over karaoke, and the two sing the song "Girls Just Want to Have Fun", which was made famous by Cyndi Lauper in 1983.[11]
"Lice" originally aired on NBC on January 10, 2013.[1] In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by 4.54 million viewers and received a 2.2 rating/6 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[12] This means that it was seen by 2.2 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[12] The Office ranked third in its timeslot, being beaten by an episode of the CBS series Person of Interest which received a 2.9/8 percent rating, and an entry of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.2/8 percent rating. In addition, The Office was the highest-rated NBC television program on the night it aired.[12] The episode was the twenty-fourth most-watched episode of television for the week it aired in the 18–49 demographic, with 2.772 million viewers in the age group.[13]
USA Today writer Whitney Matheson called the episode "the funniest ep this season" and that "it also ranks as one of the best since Steve Carell's departure in 2011". She lauded Flannery's performance, writing that "the actress has never made me laugh harder than on last night's episode".[8] Mark Trammell of TV Equals called the episode "excellent"; he was particularly pleased with the episode's humor.[10] Michael Tedder of Vulture awarded the episode four out of five stars and said that it allowed Meredith, who until the episode had been "a mostly one-dimensional source of promiscuity jokes" to have "two dimensions for once". He also applauded Fischer's performance, writing that it "would make for a terrific Emmy submission episode".[14]
Farihah Zaman of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B" and criticized its excessive narrative threads. She felt that Pam and Jim's separation brought "out the worst in them", but that "the same situations that force Jim and Pam to confront their flaws reveal the overlooked strengths of a couple of less prominent characters". She also wrote that the ending was "touching" because it humanized Meredith and made her out as a "badass".[11] Cindy White of IGN awarded the episode a score of 7.8 out of 10, denoting a "good" episode. She felt that the final scenes with Pam and Meredith singing were "a nice callback to the show's glory days" and made the ending feel "layered and grounded". White also applauded the short sequence that showed many of the office staff mundanely going about their day with mayonnaise on their heads, noting that the pacing was reminiscent of the first season when the episodes "had room to breathe". White, however, did feel that Jim's storyline was too reminiscent of the story arc in the fifth season when Pam went to art school.[15]
Nick Campbell of TV.com wrote an extremely negative review of the episode and called it "terrible". He felt that Pam's behavior due to Jim being gone was uncalled for. Furthermore, he felt that Dwight "swung too far into the territory that is known as 'annoying caricature'". Campbell did, however, write highly of Ellie Kemper, saying that "she's played [her character] funnily and warmly as anyone else".[16] Several reviewers argued that the episode functioned as a filler episode. Brett Davinger of The California Literary Review called it the "epitome of filler".[17] ScreenCrush reviewer Damon Houx wrote that "if everyone were in the same location this would be a bottle episode".[18] Furthermore, Darryl's subplot was mostly criticized. Tedder wrote that while "it's fine to have a story line where someone pursues something and then realizes it wasn't what it was cracked up to be" he wished that the show had actually developed Val as a character.[14] White wrote that she did not enjoy seeing "this manipulative version of Darryl" because it contrasted with his earlier characterization in episodes like "The Deposition". Zaman called the subplot "surprising".[15]

"Safety Training" is the twentieth episode of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's forty-eighth episode overall. Written by B. J. Novak, who also acts in the show as sales representative Ryan Howard, and directed by Caddyshack and National Lampoon's Vacation director Harold Ramis, the episode aired in the United States on April 12, 2007, on NBC.[1]
In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) attempts to prove life in an office is dangerous after Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) berates him about the dangers of the warehouse. The attempts lead him to the roof of the building, where he tries to show that depression caused by an office can lead to desperate circumstances. Meanwhile, gambling between the other employees of the office leads Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) to discover that she is still an outsider.
When Michael Scott (Steve Carell) repeatedly disrupts Darryl Philbin's (Craig Robinson) warehouse safety training session, Lonny Collins (Patrice O'Neal) and Darryl mock the office workers' safety session in retaliation, claiming that office work does not entail physical danger. Offended by Darryl's disdain for office safety training, Michael decides to demonstrate the risk of depression and suicide by jumping off the roof, landing on a hidden trampoline. When Michael tests out the trampoline by dropping a watermelon from the roof, it bounces off and hits an office worker's car, prompting it to be replaced by a bouncy castle hidden from the general view of the parking lot.  From the roof of the building, Michael talks dramatically about the dangers of depression. When the bouncy castle is discovered, Jim and Pam realize that Michael is "going to kill himself pretending to kill himself." The employees collectively talk Michael down from the roof, with Darryl doing most of the talking, to assure Michael that he is brave simply by living as himself. At the end, the car that was hit by the watermelon is revealed to be Stanley's (Leslie David Baker), who is shocked to see the mess.
Meanwhile, the office staff begins betting on various things, from counting the jelly beans in Pam Beesly's (Jenna Fischer) candy dish to whether Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) will notice that his apple has been replaced with a potato. Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) loses every bet, realizing that she is not yet as familiar with the office as she thought she was. Also, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) is back after several weeks in anger management training, determined to make a fresh start with his co-workers. His attempts to go by the name Drew are unsuccessful, and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) decides to shun Andy for three years, although he often "unshuns" him to inform him of Michael's plans.
"Safety Training" was the second episode of the series directed by Harold Ramis.  Ramis had previously directed the episode "A Benihana Christmas" earlier in the third season.  The episode was the sixth of the series written by B. J. Novak.  Novak also acts in the show as Ryan Howard.
Brian Baumgartner, who portrays accountant Kevin Malone, stated that while director Harold Ramis didn't make any major changes in the script of "Safety Training", his input changed other points of the script. Baumgartner said that "...our structure and how the show is written is all there and pretty much doesn't change. Harold (Ramis) might have ideas or specific changes that would change a moment."[2]  The hand movement used by Dwight Schrute to "shun", and then "un-shun" Andy Bernard was improvised by Rainn Wilson.[3]
"Safety Training" received a 4.1/11 in the Nielsen ratings among people ages 18–49, meaning that 4.1 percent of all people 18–49 watched the episode, and 11 percent of all people 18–49 watching TV at the time viewed the episode.  "Safety Training" received 7.7 million viewers overall.[4]
The episode was almost universally praised by critics.  Abby West of Entertainment Weekly complimented the writing of B.J. Novak in the episode, saying that "This was another gem... [Novak] kept a very nice light touch on the whole love triangle thing, only giving us that one wonderfully uncomfortable moment at Pam's desk when they were betting on how many jelly beans were in the container."[5] IGN's Brian Zoromski rated it 10 out of 10, making it one of only two third-season episodes he deemed a "masterpiece".[6] He stated that "Another truly brilliant episode of The Office aired this week, with more humor packed into the half-hour than you get in many feature-length comedies." Zoromski also praised the acting by minor characters, such as Creed Bratton and Mindy Kaling, who portrays customer service representative Kelly Kapoor.[7]
BuddyTV Senior Writer Oscar Dahl stated that "What can you say? The Office is, if anything, only getting better. Last week's super-sized episode was absolutely spectacular, but tonight's might have been even better." Dahl went on to say that both storylines of the episode were the main contributors to the success of the episode.[8]



"Cafe Disco" is the twenty-seventh and penultimate episode of the fifth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 99th overall episode of the series. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on May 7, 2009. Feeling the office is overworked after the recent reign of Charles Miner, Michael sets up a "cafe disco" in his old Michael Scott Paper Company office. Phyllis injures her back dancing at the cafe disco and bonds with Dwight as he tries to relieve her back. Meanwhile, Jim and Pam plan to elope.
The episode was written by Warren Lieberstein and Halsted Sullivan and directed by Randall Einhorn. Several songs are featured in the episode, including "Car Wash" by Rose Royce, "Cat People" by David Bowie, "Gonna Make You Sweat (Everybody Dance Now)" by C+C Music Factory and "Y.M.C.A." by Village People. The episode received generally positive reviews and, according to Nielsen ratings, was watched by 7.71 million viewers during its original broadcast.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) still has his lease on the closet he used as the office space for the Michael Scott Paper Company. Concerned that the office is still tense from the recent management by Dunder Mifflin vice president Charles Miner, Michael decides to convert the closet into a dance hall called Cafe Disco for his employees to socialize, drink coffee and dance. None of the employees care to join him (with the brief exceptions of Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), who initially came in to turn in forms, and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), who was eventually forced to leave), much to the disappointment of Michael, who then plays "Gonna Make You Sweat (Everybody Dance Now)" through the ventilation system to try tempting them to come.
Following this, Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) ultimately gives in and joins Michael; she stops in to invite her husband Bob Vance (Robert R. Shafer) but his secretary, who resembles Phyllis, tells her Bob is not available, making Phyllis jealous. In Cafe Disco, Phyllis throws out her back after dancing too hard. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) brings her into the conference room and starts giving her a kind of massage he usually gives injured horses. The two spend a long amount of time together and she eventually confides in Dwight that she fears her husband is having an affair with his new secretary, but the two laugh together when Phyllis realizes how ridiculous the idea sounds.
When the rest of the office is told of Phyllis' injury, they take this as confirmation that the Cafe Disco is a bad idea and reprimand Michael for what happened to Phyllis. Disappointed and angry, Michael instructs Erin to close up the Cafe Disco. Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) comes down with her and the two start dancing after Erin turns on the stereo. This catches the eye of two male employees from Vance Refrigeration, and soon Cafe Disco is full of both Dunder Mifflin employees and non-employees, much to Michael's delight. Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) is mildly baffled that Erin actually invited one of her friends to come, as opposed to being ashamed of the office. Kelly and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) get into a competitive dance-off with each other, and Kevin makes out in the corner with his girlfriend Lynne (Lisa K. Wyatt).
Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) have decided to avoid the expense and stress of a wedding and elope to a simple courthouse ceremony in Youngstown, Ohio without letting their co-workers know. Pam comes to work with a wedding dress and Jim picks up flowers in the office parking lot. As they are leaving, they decide to stop in at Cafe Disco, and end up having a lot of fun, making them decide they really want an actual wedding ceremony after all. Phyllis eventually recovers and dances with Bob in the Cafe Disco. Michael tries to encourage Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) to dance, but she refuses because she does not like "the general spirit of music." When Angela starts softly shaking her foot to the beat, however, Michael is extremely satisfied with the small victory. At the end of the episode, an extremely nervous Andy gets his ear pierced by Kelly with a pin in the bathroom.
"Essentially Michael has another terrible idea on how to let off some steam in the office and the concept of a café disco emerges, which is a dancing situation that involves coffee.  I'm not a good dancer, but I try really, really hard, and I'm not talking about Andy Bernard, I'm talking about Ed Helms."
Ed Helms, about Cafe Disco[1]"Cafe Disco" was written by Warren Lieberstein and Halsted Sullivan and directed by Randall Einhorn. The Office writers Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg appear in cameos as Vance Refrigeration employees who attend the Cafe Disco dance after spotting Kelly and Erin dancing together.[2] Ed Helms, who describes himself as a poor dancer, said he found the dancing scenes very challenging and that he was very sore by the end of the filming.[1]
The official website for The Office included four cut scenes from "Cafe Disco" within a week of its original release. In the first 80-second clip, Kevin meets Lynne in the elevator, where he tells her she smells like bacon, and says "I love the smell of bacon in the morning." Later, he invites Lynne to Cafe Disco.[3] In the second, 47-second clip, Michael insists he will not let the fun stop in the office, and tells the story of his grandfather, who he said was the most fun person until he was changed by his job.[4] In the third, 30-second clip, Dwight talks to Phyllis about his experience in his high school girls' softball team, which he was able to join due to the "landmark" Pennsylvania Supreme Court case, "Shrute vs. Lackawanna County Board of Education".[5] In the final, 30-second-clip, Dwight tells the documentary crew about his hatred for Ohio, the home of his cousin Amel, who he says should be kicked in the "groin area" because he's a "cheat and a ball hog."[6]
The episode features the songs "Car Wash" by Rose Royce, "Cat People" by David Bowie, "Gonna Make You Sweat (Everybody Dance Now)" by C+C Music Factory, "Y.M.C.A." by Village People, "Boy Hangover" written by Lester Lewis, sung by Bonnie McKee, "I'll Do You like a Truck" by Geo da Silva, "Climb on Board The Train" by Destination Soul, "Pimpin'" by Tian & Styliztic, "Whiplash" by Image, and "Various Disgraces" by The Blam.[7]
During their dance competition, Andy does a dance involving a chair from the music video of the Madonna song "Vogue", and Kelly does a reenactment of the silhouette chair dance from the 1983 romance film Flashdance,[8] which inspired elements of a dance done by actress Vanessa Ferlito in the 2007 Quentin Tarantino film Death Proof.[9] Jim and Pam plan to drive to Youngstown, a city in Mahoning County, Ohio, to get married in a courthouse.[2][10] Dwight does an impression of actor Jack Nicholson's character Jack Torrance from the 1980 Stanley Kubrick film The Shining.[2] Michael likens the positive office atmosphere to that of Dave & Buster's, a restaurant and entertainment business. To signify the care-free atmosphere of Cafe Disco, Michael hangs on the wall a lei, a Hawaiian flower necklace. When his Cafe Disco idea is initially rejected, Michael says he can understand how it felt to be the tobacco company Philip Morris.[11]
"Cafe Disco" includes several callbacks to previous The Office episodes. Michael blames Charles Miner, the new Dunder Mifflin vice president, for the poor atmosphere around the office; Charles was the antagonist of a recent six-episode story arc revolving around Michael's defection from Dunder Mifflin to the Michael Scott Paper Company.[2][8] The office space used for Cafe Disco is the old Michael Scott Paper Company office space previously featured in the episodes "Michael Scott Paper Company", "Heavy Competition" and "Broke".[2] The episode features Lynne (Lisa K. Wyatt) as Kevin's date at the dance; Lynne was introduced in "Blood Drive", the fifth season's Valentine's Day episode, where the two meet at an office singles party. Television reviewers also compared the bonding between Dwight and Phyllis in "Cafe Disco" as a throwback to "Crime Aid", an episode earlier in the season, in which Phyllis tries to console a saddened Dwight in the wake of Andy and Angela's engagement.[12]
In its original American broadcast on May 7, 2009, "Cafe Disco" was watched by 7.71 million viewers, according to Nielsen ratings, an increase from the previous week. The episode received a 4.5 rating/14 share among viewers aged between 18 and 34, and a 3.8 rating/11 share among viewers between 18 and 49.[13] The episode outperformed the 3.5 rating/9 share of CBS' crime drama series CSI: Crime Scene Investigation in the 18—49 category.[13][14] The Office creator Greg Daniels said he was particularly proud of this, especially in light of the series' upcoming 100th episode, "Company Picnic"; Daniels said of beating CSI, "Who would have thought that when we aired for the first time?"
The episode received generally positive reviews. Margaret Lyons of Entertainment Weekly praised the episode, comparing it positively to previous episodes "Casino Night" and "Booze Cruise": "not as heavy or emotional, certainly, but still a chance to see our Dunderheads in a charming and demonstrative not-quite-work environment." Lyons also complimented a number of changes in the series the episode seemed to indicate, including shifting allegiances, goodwill where there used to be bad and a possible budding romance between Andy and Kelly.[2] Alan Sepinwall, television journalist with The Star-Ledger, said the episode, "started off seeming like a dumb and pointless idea before gradually revealing itself to be a fun, and even welcome, diversion." Sepinwall said the episode was not as funny as other recent ones, but that he enjoyed seeing the characters interact this way together, and particularly liked seeing Dwight and Phyllis bond, "even as he treated her like a racehorse".[12] Josh McAuliffe of The Times-Tribune in Scranton, Pennsylvania, described the episode as "a wacky and wonderful little gem, one of those rare ones where it was just wall-to-wall happy, giddy fun, with not a drop of pathos, except for maybe Michael whining about having to eat lunch by himself." McAuliffe also said he was glad to see Erin's "cheerful, appealingly goofy personality" continue to emerge.[10]
Nathin Rabin of The A.V. Club said the episode made him feel "borderline euphoric", and said of it, "With a light touch the show made an insightful point—that we need our dance-offs and workday discos and spontaneous expressions of delight."[11] Travis Fickett of IGN said the episode had "an infectious sense of fun" and felt as if the show producers "just turned the camera on the cast's wrap party and let it roll a while". However, Fickett also said very little actually happened in the episode, which he said felt "mostly like filler" between the recently finished Michael Scott Paper Company arc and the following week's season finale, "Company Picnic".[8] New York magazine writer Will Leitch also said the episode felt lighter than recent episodes, but he said, "that’s okay: They’ve earned a week off, and they sure seem to be having a lot of fun." He particularly praised the competition between Andy and Kelly, and Michael's dancing: "There are few funnier dancers than Steve Carell, particularly Steve Carell amped on coffee."[9] Andy Shaw of TV Fodder said the episode allowed the entire cast to shine and included great chemistry between Phyllis Smith and Rainn Wilson. He also said he was glad to see Ellie Kemper get more screen time, "and not just because she's Office eye candy. She adds some freshness to the cast, as she's the only person at Dunder Mifflin right now who doesn't really know anything about all the drama and backstory, so she just takes Michael and everyone else for face value."[15] Kelly West of Cinema Blend described "Cafe Disco" as "one of the most random episodes of The Office."[16]
"Cafe Disco" was voted the seventh highest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 8.49 out of 10.[17]



"The Inner Circle" is the twenty-third episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 149th episode overall. The episode originally aired on May 5, 2011, on NBC. The episode also marked Will Ferrell's final appearance as Deangelo, having signed up for four episodes. Cody Horn also makes her first guest appearance for the series as Jordan Garfield.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, new office manager Deangelo begins picking favorites among the staff, revealing his true management style. After he only picks men to join his "inner circle", many of the female staffers begin to believe he is sexist.
The episode was written by Charlie Grandy and directed by Matt Sohn. The episode marks the first episode since Steve Carell left the series as a series regular. "The Inner Circle" received mixed reviews from critics, with many commenting on Ferrell's performance, with opinions ranging from positive to negative. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was viewed by an estimated 6.90 million households and received a 3.5 Nielsen rating and 10% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49 marking a drop in the ratings from the previous episode, "Goodbye, Michael".
New office manager Deangelo Vickers (Will Ferrell) picks favorites among the staff, including Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), a sycophantic Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods), and Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), who is attending business school thanks to Deangelo. He is also favorable towards Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), who he believes is the head of the customer service department and Kelly Kapoor's (Mindy Kaling) direct supervisor. Kelly is initially irate at the situation, but Ryan agrees to be a more dutiful boyfriend in exchange for Kelly keeping up the charade. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) desperately aspires to join the inner circle, while Deangelo repeatedly attempts to win over Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), who is still apathetic toward the new boss. Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) sees his style as sexist, as every member of the inner circle is male, which Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) agrees to, as Deangelo has repeatedly been acting coldly towards her; they persuade Jim to talk to Deangelo about it. To prove to the staff that he's not sexist, Deangelo hires a woman named Jordan Garfield (Cody Horn), who turns out to have no business experience (having previously worked at Anthropologie) over other qualified candidates, including a friend of Pam's. Kelly later attempts to tell Deangelo the truth about Ryan's actual position as a temp worker, but Deangelo simply appoints Ryan as the department head rather than figuring out the truth.
Jim is kicked out of the inner circle after pointing out what the women of the office had said, and an enthusiastic Andy replaces him (despite having previously denounced Deangelo after deciding that he was sexist). Pam interrupts a mock basketball session the inner circle is having in the office in order to quiet it down, and an annoyed Deangelo reinvites Jim back into the circle. Jim instead challenges him to try a real dunk, which Deangelo claims he can do, at the warehouse basketball hoop downstairs. Deangelo brings everyone down to the warehouse, including Dwight, who Deangelo finally loses his temper with and directly orders him downstairs or be fired (ironically earning Dwight's respect, as he "respond[s] to strong leadership"). Deangelo then attempts to dunk from the free-throw line, only to severely injure himself by crashing down with the basketball stand on top of him. He is immediately taken to the hospital, leaving Dunder Mifflin Scranton without a manager.
At the end of the episode, Deangelo makes it back to the office, still in his hospital gown, with an IV tube trailing from his arm. His attempts to tell a bar joke come out as random gibberish. Gabe and Jim lead him out of the office after Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) calls for an ambulance.
The episode was written by supervising producer Charlie Grandy, his sixth writing credit of the series. It was directed by the series' cinematographer Matt Sohn, his second directing credit of the series.[1] This is the first episode of The Office without former lead actor Steve Carell as Michael Scott. The feeling during filming was initially "weird", but the mood eventually changed to "very hopeful, excited and anticipatory feeling" according to Office showrunner Paul Lieberstein.[2] The episode marked the final appearance in Will Ferrell's four-episode arc on the series after first appearing in "Training Day".[3] The episode is also the first appearance of Cody Horn as Jordan Garfield, Deangelo's executive assistant, and the first of three new roles since Carell's departure. The role was originally said to be recurring at first with a chance of her becoming a series regular.[4] She eventually did not return for the eighth season.[5] In the final scene, Krasinski can be seen breaking character and putting his head down.[6]
The official website for The Office included three cut scenes from "The Inner Circle" within a week of its release. In the first 38 second clip, Deangelo invites Dwight on a weekend trip to a Los Lobos concert which Dwight declines once he learns he can't drive the bus. In a talking head, Dwight reveals that Deangelo makes his skin crawl.[7] In the second 144 second clip, Andy tries to become Deangelo's new executive assistant while in a talking head Pam decides to give up trying to impress Deangelo. It is also revealed in the same talking head that Michael named his new dog after Pam.[8] In the third 82 second clip, Jim attempts to get back into the inner circle.[9]
In its original American broadcast on May 5, 2011, "The Inner Circle" was viewed by an estimated 6.90 million households and received a 3.5 rating/10% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[10] This means that it was seen by 3.5% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a 17% drop in the ratings from the previous episode, "Goodbye, Michael", but marked a rise from the last regular episode, "Michael's Last Dundies".[10] The episode tied for first in its timeslot beating Bones which received a 3.2 rating/9% share in the 18–49 demographic, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation which received a 2.3 rating/6% share and Nikita which received a 0.8 rating/2% share. The episode also tied for first in its timeslot with Grey's Anatomy.[10] "The Inner Circle" was the fifth most-watched scripted show for the week of broadcast among adults aged 18–49.[11]
For now, at least, the show is no longer about discomfort, and it's no longer about drudgery. It's about all the quirky characters in an office, which isn't much different than any workplace sitcom that has been on TV in the last forty years. If this show didn't have seven years of history to back it up, this episode would have made you feel like you were watching Suddenly Susan without a laugh track.
Joel Keller, TV Squad[12]The episode received mixed reviews from critics. The A.V. Club writer Myles McNutt compared the episode to "Training Day" commenting that "'The Inner Circle' is more successful than that episode ['Training Day'] on some levels", but "both episodes suffer from the same problem: They’re simply not very funny or meaningful, which I'd argue is even more problematic for "The Inner Circle" given its position in the season."[13] He ultimately gave the episode a C−.[13] TV Squad writer Joel Keller wrote that while "the episode did have its funny moments", "overall, you can just feel that the show has changed in a very fundamental way".[12] Alan Sepinwall of HitFix criticized the writers for still not finding Deangelo's character out commenting that "the fact that the writers so clearly had no idea what to do with Ferrell doesn't fill me with confidence for whatever guest stars turn up in the final episodes – nor do I feel especially great right now about the idea of an outside character coming in as the permanent new regional manager."[14]
IGN reviewer Cindy White praised the writing for Deangelo's character saying that "Ferrell is much better carrying the show on his own than being second banana to Carell. It seemed like he was having more fun with the role in this episode".[6] She ultimately gave the episode a 7.0/10.[6] New York's Phoebe Reilly wrote that "while it was nice to see the staff responding to someone new, it didn't feel like enough to make an audience antsy to come back after a long summer."[15] Hillary Busis of Entertainment Weekly also gave the episode a mediocre review commenting that "judging by tonight's episode alone, the transition from the Carell era to the post-Carell era is going to be shaky, to say the least".[16] "The Inner Circle" was voted the fourth lowest-rated episode out of 24 from the seventh season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally.[17] In another poll, the episode was voted the third lowest-rated episode out of 24 from the seventh season and was rated 6.86 out of 10.[18]


"Junior Salesman" is the thirteenth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 189th episode overall. It originally aired on NBC on January 31, 2013. The episode was written by Carrie Kemper and directed by David Rogers. The episode features the return and introduction of several guest stars, including Chris Diamantopoulos, Beth Grant, Chris Gethard, Matt L. Jones, Lance Krall, Will McCormack, Mark Proksch, Michael Schur, James Urbaniak and Eric Wareheim.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Dunder Mifflin CEO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) tasks Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) with finding a part-time replacement for Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), and Dwight must choose among Clark (Clark Duke) and several of his close friends, including his cousin Mose (Schur).
The episode received mixed reviews from television critics, however many considered it superior to "Vandalism", particularly for the lessened presence of Brian. "Junior Salesman" was viewed by 4.45 million viewers and received a 2.1/5 rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. Although The Office, ranked third in its timeslot, it ranked as the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Dunder Mifflin CEO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) has tasked Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) with finding a part-time replacement for Jim Halpert (John Krasinski). Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) is concerned about this, as Jim's replacement will be her new "deskmate". Clark Green (Clark Duke) feels he is ready for the position, citing his key role in various sales, but Dwight wants someone who he can be sure will not team up with Pam against him. To that end, he brings in a bizarre gallery of his relatives and close friends, including his cousin Mose (Michael Schur), best friend Rolf (James Urbaniak), part-time private investigator Trevor (Chris Gethard), former Corporate executive Troy Underbridge (Noel Petok), and his karate teacher Sensei Ira (Lance Krall). To Dwight's horror, though, none of his candidates are competent enough to even make it through the full job interview, much less be paper salesmen. Clark ends his interview after answering Dwight's complicated questions perfectly, pointing out that he has no choice but to hire him if he wants someone who can do the job.
Jim calls Wallace to pitch for the CEO to invest in Athlead. Dwight puts the conversation on speaker phone, allowing him to hear Wallace first tell Jim his salary is going to be cut to reflect his part-time status, and then bluntly shoot down the idea of investing in Athlead. Dwight, though praising his friends' outlandish delinquent behavior to the cameras, gradually comes to realize his professional integrity will not allow him to hire any of them, and sadly notes that he outgrew all of his friends in just three hours. Afraid they will hate him if he does not pick one of them, he asks Jim to pretend to take over the hiring decision and make the call to hire no one. Being willing to do anything to save Pam from being stuck with an unbearable deskmate, Jim agrees. However, when Jim announces the decision, Rolf immediately intuits that Dwight is using Jim as a scapegoat. Dwight's friends storm off to play paintball without him, later sending an e-mail with a photo of their paintball outing and the message "Glad you're not here" while giving Dwight the finger. Clark gets the salesman job. Pam is grateful to Jim for arranging this but says she still misses her "old deskmate" Jim. Pam briefly lifts Dwight's spirits by suggesting they "haze the new guy", though she makes Dwight stop that plan when he nearly suffocates Clark with shrink wrap. It is also hinted that Brian (Chris Diamantopoulos), the boom mike operator for the documentary crew, has developed a crush on Pam, paired with audio of Jim’s talking head, “Because of where my desk was, I spent all those years looking at Pam, and I fell in love.”
"Junior Salesman" was written by executive story editor Carrie Kemper, who is the younger sister of cast member Ellie Kemper, making it her fourth writing credit for the series, following the ninth-season entry, "The Whale".[2][3] The episode was directed by series editor David Rogers, marking his eighth directing credit for the series, following the ninth season entry, "Andy's Ancestry".[2][4] The episode features guest appearances from Matt L. Jones as Dwight's cousin, Zeke. Jones had initially been cast for a proposed Office spin-off centered on Dwight titled "The Farm".[5] A backdoor pilot was filmed, but upon review, the spin-off was not picked up by NBC.[6] The episode also features the first time appearance of Eric Wareheim as Gabor and Will McCormack as Wolf.[7] In addition to new guest stars, the episode saw the return of several minor characters, including Lance Krall as Sensei Ira, Chris Gethard as Trevor, Noel Petok as Troy Underbridge, Beth Grant as Dwight's babysitter, Melvina, and James Urbaniak as Rolf.[8][9][10][11][12]
The press release for the episode included, "Erin tries to find her birth parents with Pete's help", although this plotline was completely absent from the episode. David Rogers, who is also an editor on the series, said that storyline was cut because "we had so much great comedy and needed the time for Dwight and his freaky friends and how Jim and the gang reacted".[13] Rogers also commented since they shoot in a documentary style, they can shoot faster than regular single-camera comedies, meaning their first cut of the episodes can be 15–21 minutes longer than the 22-minute air length, and several scenes need to be cut.[13]
"Junior Salesman" originally aired on NBC on January 31, 2013, alongside the following episode, "Vandalism".[1] The hour-long timeslot for The Office followed the one-hour series finale of 30 Rock.[14] In its original American broadcast, "Junior Salesman" was viewed by 4.45 million viewers and received a 2.1 rating/5 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, marking a slight rise in the ratings from the previous episode, "Customer Loyalty".[15][16] This means that it was seen by 2.1 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 5 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The Office ranked third in its timeslot, and was the highest-rated NBC series of the night, although the hour-long installment of 30 Rock received more viewers.[15] 1.91 million viewers watched the episode through DVR playback, bringing the total viewership to 6.36 million.[17]
The episode received mixed reviews from television critics. Michael Tedder of Vulture awarded the episode—along with "Vandalism"—four stars out of five. He called it "one of the silliest episodes in recent memory", and complimented the break from the dramatic ending of "Customer Loyalty". He also complimented the maturation of Dwight throughout the episode, calling this episode a "mile-marker" for his character. He considered it superior to the succeeding episode, "Vandalism".[18] IGN writer Roth Cornet said the Dwight plotline yielded the "funniest and most disturbing moments of the night", but that the episode did not allow for much work to be given to the rest of the ensemble cast. Cornet also went on to criticize Brian's infatuation towards Pam and the potential "other-man" outcome for their storyline, stating that it would ultimately just be a "gimmick". She gave the episode a 7.5/10, calling it "Good".[19] Bonnie Stiernberg of Paste considered the episode to be a build-up to the "gut-punch" scene between Brian and Pam in "Vandalism", considering the only other important plot from the episode to be the Dwight-Jim one. Stiernberg considered the Dwight-Jim subplot to be "moderately funny", but "predictably bizarre". She gave the episode a seven out of ten, along with "Vandalism".[20]
Brett Davinger of The California Literary Review called Brian's antics "creepy", particularly his smile at the end of the episode. Despite this, Davinger complimented the episode for focusing on one single plot.[21] Nick Campbell of TV.com wrote that "Junior Salesman"—along with "Vandalism"—was "so much sharper than last week's trial in Dullsville". Campbell also complimented the return of Michael Schur as Mose and the performances of Matt L. Jones and Brian Baumgartner.[22] Multiple critics considered the episode superior to "Vandalism", particularly due to their displeasure with the Brian-Pam storyline, which was more prevalent in "Vandalism".[7][19][21]



"Health Care" is the third episode of the first season of the American comedy television series The Office. Written by Paul Lieberstein, who also acts in the show as Toby Flenderson, and directed by Ken Whittingham, the episode first aired in the United States on April 5, 2005, on NBC.
In this episode, Michael (played by Steve Carell) is tasked with choosing a new and inexpensive health care plan. He immediately hands it off to enthusiastic volunteer Dwight (Rainn Wilson).  Dwight ruthlessly cuts nearly all benefits in the new plan, angering the rest of the office staff.  Meanwhile, Pam (Jenna Fischer) and Jim (John Krasinski) make up fake diseases, much to Dwight's chagrin. In an attempt to appease them, Michael promises the entire office a surprise and then spends the rest of the day scrambling to come through with his promise. The employees wait for Michael's surprise, which he awkwardly never delivers.
The episode received positive reviews from television critics. Jenna Fischer later called "Health Care" her favorite season one episode. The episode received a 2.9/7 in the Nielsen ratings among people aged 18–49 and garnered 5.8 million viewers overall. In addition, the episode retained 100% of its lead-in 18–49 audience and ranked, along with the other first-season episodes of The Office, as NBC's highest-rated Tuesday night program since February 1, 2005.
Jan Levinson-Gould tasks Michael Scott with picking a new healthcare plan for the office, dictating that he must choose a provider and pick the cheapest plan. Unwilling to reveal the bad news that healthcare benefits will be cut to the employees, Michael tasks Jim Halpert with handling the healthcare decision, but Jim instead recommends Dwight Schrute, who eagerly accepts the assignment. To work on the plan, Michael allows Dwight to use the conference room as a temporary workspace, though Dwight lets the power go to his head and refers to his workspace as an office.
Dwight picks a very cheap plan with little coverage, no benefits, and a large deductible. Not willing to confront the disgruntled employees, Michael hides out in his office claiming he is very busy. When the other employees confront him about Dwight's plan, he chastises Dwight and tries to liven the employees' spirits by bluffing that he has a big surprise prepared for them. In another desperate attempt to avoid questions, Michael leaves the office and tries to come up with a surprise.
Dwight distributes forms that ask employees to list any ailments or illnesses they may have so that it may be covered. Jim and Pam Beesly conjure up fake diseases that frustrate Dwight. Jim later locks Dwight in his "workspace" as Michael, having failed to procure a better surprise, returns with ice cream sandwiches. While trapped in the conference room, Dwight calls Jan, attempting to get Jim fired, but Jan is outraged that Michael left the office and left Dwight in charge of the healthcare plan. Dwight gathers the employees in the conference room, forcing them to publicly reveal their ailments.
At the end of the day, the employees confront Michael about the surprise, but Michael's awkward stalling tactics cause them to finally realize there is no surprise, and they leave. With only him and Dwight left in the office, Dwight belatedly tells Michael that Jan said to call her.
"Health Care" marked the first episode written by writer/actor Paul Lieberstein, who would go on to write several other episodes.[2] It also marked the first episode directed by Ken Whittingham, who would go on to direct several other episodes.[3]
Jenna Fischer stated that "Health Care" was her favorite episode of season one. Fischer went on to say that "We laughed a lot while making this episode. Particularly during the scene where Dwight confronts everyone in the office about who has been writing fake diseases on their health forms. Rainn Wilson kept improvising new fake diseases, and we didn't know what he would say next." Fischer notes that several of the scenes that involved laughing were not scripted and were in fact the cast's genuine reaction to Wilson's fake diseases.[4] The episode was rebroadcast on March 29, 2007, as part of a "Human resources Nightmares" marathon hosted by Paul Lieberstein.[5] Lieberstein's character Toby Flenderson is the Human Resources Representative for the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the Dunder Mifflin paper company, where The Office is set. "Health Care" was one of two first-season episodes, the other being "Hot Girl", to not contain commentary by members of the cast and crew on the season DVD.[6]
"Health Care" premiered on NBC on April 5, 2005. The episode received a 2.9/7 in the Nielsen ratings among people aged 18–49, meaning that 2.9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds viewed the episode and seven percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching TV viewed it. The episode garnered 5.8 million viewers overall. The episode, airing after Scrubs, retained 100% of its lead-in 18–49 audience. In addition, "Health Care", along with the other first-season episodes of The Office helped NBC score its highest-rated Tuesday night slot since February 1, 2005.[7]
Critical reception to "Health Care" was largely positive. Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B+", and felt that the episode helped to expand upon Dwight's character, noting that "the pieces are falling into place" for Dwight to become the show's breakout character. Furthermore, he applauded the fact that the episode was based on an episode of the original BBC series, but that it did not create an exact copy, but rather used the concept as a template to create something new and original.[8]
In a review by DVD Verdict, Mike Pinsky stated that "Turning the third episode over to such a character, when Michael passes off responsibility for picking a corporate health care plan to Dwight, is meant to draw laughs out of his megalomania. But it just is not that funny."[9] Travis Fickett from IGN wrote positively of the episode, giving it a 7.9/10 "good" rating. He noted that "there's something Stephen King about Dwight that creates an underlying layer of menace" and that the episode is "an early incarnation of [The Office's] early days, its original "paradigm" – and arguably its strongest."[10] IGN later placed Jim and Pam's prank of creating fake diseases as ninth in its "Top Ten Moments from The Office".[11] Television Without Pity awarded the episode an A rating.[12]

"The Farm" is the seventeenth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 193rd overall. It originally aired on NBC on March 14, 2013. The episode guest stars Majandra Delfino, Matt Jones, Thomas Middleditch, Blake Garrett Rosenthal, David Koechner, Allan Havey, Nora Kirkpatrick, Mary Gillis, and Michael Schur.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. The episode revolves around Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) attending the funeral of his Aunt Shirley at Schrute Farms, where his family reunites. Meanwhile, Todd Packer (David Koechner) returns to the office claiming to be a reformed man.
"The Farm" was produced to serve as a backdoor pilot for a proposed spin-off series starring Wilson as Dwight, which NBC ultimately did not pick up. The episode received mostly negative reviews from television critics, with many criticizing Dwight's farm storyline and some critics calling it a "Frankenstein episode". The episode was viewed by 3.54 million viewers and received a 1.9/5 rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode ranked fourth in its timeslot, and it was the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) informs the office that his Aunt Shirley has died. The only co-worker he invites to the funeral is Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez), who flees when Dwight begins shooting the corpse with a shotgun to ensure it is really dead. At the funeral, Dwight's family gathers: his cousins Mose (Michael Schur) and Zeke (Matt Jones), his brother Jeb (Thomas Middleditch), his sister Fannie (Majandra Delfino), his nephew Cammy (Blake Garrett Rosenthal), and his uncle Heinrich (Tom Bower). The family learns that Aunt Shirley has willed the siblings her estate on the condition that they all come back home to run it. Though Jeb and Fannie do not share Dwight's enthusiasm for country life, Dwight manages to convince them to move back to Scranton and help him run the farm, thereby inheriting it.
Meanwhile, Todd Packer (David Koechner) visits the office and announces that he wants to make amends for his past behavior. He makes rude remarks masked as apologies and hands out store-bought cupcakes. Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) argues that they should not eat the cupcakes to spite Packer. She remains adamant on this point even after Packer leaves, but the remaining employees eat their cupcakes. Packer reveals to the documentary crew that he spiked the cupcakes with drugs in retaliation for his firing. He then visits Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) at Athlead in Philadelphia, pulling the same trick on them. In the morning, Pam returns to the office and announces she is going to eat her cupcake, only to find everyone else reeling from the aftereffects of Packer's deed.
The episode was written and directed by executive producer and former showrunner Paul Lieberstein, marking his thirteenth writing credit, sixth directorial credit and fourth dual credit.[2] "The Farm" was the fifth episode produced, but was the seventeenth aired, as noted by its production number.[1] It was originally supposed to act as a backdoor pilot for a spin-off series, also called The Farm starring Wilson and focusing on Dwight. As such, Wilson was initially slated to appear in only 13 episodes of The Office's ninth season before leaving for the spin-off.[3] Paul Lieberstein, the showrunner for The Office for seasons five through eight, stepped down at the start of season nine in order to focus more energy on the potential spin-off.[4] However, upon review, the spin-off was not picked up by NBC.[5] Executive producer Greg Daniels revealed that the episode would have additional material shot so that it fits better into the season, as the original version contained "certain aspects that were appropriate for a pilot of a new show".[6]
The episode guest stars Majandra Delfino, Blake Garrett Rosenthal, Thomas Middleditch and Matt Jones as members of Dwight's family, who were intended to form the main cast of The Farm with Wilson; Delfino plays Dwight's sister Fannie, Rosenthal plays Dwight's nephew Cammy, Middleditch portrays Dwight's brother Jeb, and Jones portrays Dwight's cousin Zeke. Tom Bower appears as Dwight's great uncle Heinrich in a deleted scene only, although he retains his credit in the broadcast episode.[7][5][8] Jones had previously appeared in the ninth season entry, "Junior Salesman".[9]
"The Farm" originally aired on NBC on March 14, 2013, after a four-week hiatus.[10] In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by an estimated 3.54 million viewers and received a 1.9 rating/5 percent share.[11] This means that it was seen by 1.9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 5 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a decrease in the ratings from the previous episode, "Moving On".[11][12] The Office ranked fourth in its timeslot, being beaten by an episode of the CBS police procedural Person of Interest which received a 2.9/8 percent rating, an entry of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which received a 2.6/7 percent rating, and an installment of the Fox series Glee which received a 2.0/6 percent rating.[11] Despite this, the episode was the highest-rated NBC series for the night.[11] 1.90 million viewers watched the episode via DVR playback, bringing the total viewership to 5.36 million viewers and a 3.0 18–49 rating.[13]
"Then there was the open-endedness of Dwight walking onto the farm with his brother and sister, the beginning of the new life. The tone didn't match. None of this was necessarily bad on its own, but because we know what we know, it came off less like a weird outing for Dwight and revealed the stitching of people trying to patch in a standalone episode... which by mere approach made it feel larger and grander, the seams of the monster."
—Nick Campbell, TV.com[14]"The Farm" received mostly negative reviews from critics, many criticizing Dwight's farm storyline and some critics calling it a "Frankenstein episode".[14][15] M. Giant of Television Without Pity awarded the episode a C.[16] Alan Sepinwall of HitFix considered NBC's decision not to pick up the spin-off for more episodes the right decision, writing that the characters and scenes were "barely sketches" and featured too much "cartoonishness". Sepinwall also criticized the Todd Packer scenes, and only saw Dwight's interactions with his nephew, Cammy, in a positive light.[17] TV.com columnist Nick Campbell called the farm storyline "unnatural" compared to the episode and the series, as a whole, and wrote that the tone to the ending "didn't match". Despite this, he complimented the storyline for "establishing tone, characters, and direction in literally half the time usually allotted".[14] The A.V. Club reviewer Erik Adams complimented the episode for serving as a "breather" from the season's long arcs, and gave good background information into Dwight's personality. He went on to criticize the pilot's broad humor, writing that following the scene featuring Dwight shooting a shotgun into his aunt's casket, "it would be next to impossible for The Farm to heighten from that point". Adams graded the episode a B.[18] Damon Houx of Screen Crush called the two storylines "two pieces of that [sic] didn't work all that well together", which all added to a "dull" episode. Houx complimented Koechner's performance, calling him a "great improviser" but wrote that the whole plot was lacking. He also considered the farm plotline to be pointless and aimless, especially due to it airing in the last few episodes of the series.[19]


"Koi Pond" is the eighth episode of the sixth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 108th episode overall. The episode was written by Warren Lieberstein and Halsted Sullivan, and directed by Reggie Hudlin. It originally aired on NBC on October 29, 2009.
The series, presented in a mockumentary style, depicts the everyday lives of office employees at the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictitious Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael (Steve Carell) and Jim (John Krasinski) go to a sales meeting across town, where Michael falls in a koi pond and has to return to the office soaking wet. Meanwhile, Pam (Jenna Fischer) and Andy (Ed Helms), as punishment for having the two lowest sales records in the office, are required to go cold calling for sales across town. The episode achieved a viewership of 8.2 million in the United States.
The cold open of the episode featured Michael hosting a haunted house in the company's warehouse for the office workers' children, where Michael pretends to hang himself at the end in an attempt to scare the children. The cold open aired only once, on the night of the episode's premiere, and was subsequently pulled from future reruns by NBC. The episode received mostly positive reviews from critics.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) sets up a meeting with a client who requests that Michael Scott (Steve Carell) come with him. Jim is unhappy because he wants to be able to do meetings by himself. When they come back from the meeting, Michael is soaked because he fell into a koi pond. When they find out, the rest of the office makes fun of him. Michael responds by holding a sensitivity meeting where he asks everyone to write down things they wish were not said about them. The meeting goes nowhere, so Jim ends it. To help, Jim tells Michael that if he mocks himself, the rest of the office will be less inclined to mock him. This works, but Michael gets carried away and rambles into a self-pitying confessional about his loneliness. Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) receives a copy of the security tape showcasing Michael's fall. The tape shows that Jim could have stopped Michael from falling but deliberately stepped away. Jim admits that he wished he had gone by himself because he wants to be able to do things by himself as a co-manager; Michael's mood is lifted when he realizes that Jim is jealous of his sales skills. Jim then becomes the victim of office mocking, but he and Michael laugh it off later.
Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) go cold calling to drum up more sales, as they have the lowest quarterly sales numbers in the branch. At the first place they go to, the receptionist notices Pam's pregnancy and assumes Andy is the father. Pam reacts to the mistake with alarm, offending Andy. During the next meeting, the client also assumes that Andy is the father, and in an act of revenge Andy harshly mocks the idea, leaving Pam frustrated and costing them the sale. At the next place they go to, that client also assumes Andy is the father, and this time they play along with it in order to avoid further antagonizing each other and ruining their sales. Andy takes it too far by touching her belly, even kissing it, and indulging in extensive baby talk, but the client says "maybe" to signing with them. In the car back to the office, Andy admits that he enjoyed pretending to be a father and is unhappy that he is still single. He then admits his attraction to Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper). Sympathizing with Andy, Pam approaches Erin and tries to set them up.
This episode was watched by 8.2 million viewers, with a 4.2 rating and a 10 share in the 18–49 demographic.[2]
The original aired version featured a cold opening where Michael turned the warehouse into a haunted house for children for Halloween. At the end of the scene, Michael is pretending to hang himself. The scene was pulled from the reruns and DVD versions due to protest from Caryn Zucker, then-wife of NBC Universal's CEO Jeff Zucker who worked in suicide prevention.[3]


"Dunder Mifflin Infinity" is the third and fourth episode of the fourth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's fifty-sixth and fifty-seventh episode overall. It was written by Michael Schur, who also acts in the show, and directed by Craig Zisk. It first aired in the United States on October 4, 2007 on NBC.[1]
In this episode, Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) returns to his old office and reveals his plan to bring technology to Dunder Mifflin. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) try to prove that the personal touch is better than technology. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) reveal their relationship to the rest of the office, Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) attempts to reunite with Ryan, and Dwight's and Angela Martin's (Angela Kinsey) relationship continues to plummet.
Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) returns to the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of Dunder Mifflin for the first time since his promotion to the corporate headquarters. Although he sports a much more urbane look and attitude, he garners little respect from his former peers. He presents "Dunder Mifflin Infinity", his initiative to revitalize the company with new technology. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is initially excited about the prospect of getting a BlackBerry, but is warned by Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) that the program is a ploy to get rid of older workers. Creed dyes his hair black with printer ink to convince everyone he is much younger. Michael holds a conference-room meeting on the subject of ageism. To show that personal interaction is more effective than new technology, Michael and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) decide to win back the clients they lost in the past year by hand-delivering gift baskets to them. Each manager they encounter refuses to return to Dunder Mifflin unless the company enables online ordering and lowers its prices. With one basket left to deliver, Michael pretends to misinterpret his rental car's GPS directions and intentionally drives into Lake Scranton. He uses this as further proof that new technology is useless because it tried to kill him. After the lake incident, he and Dwight walk back to one of the former clients to awkwardly get back their gift basket, causing a scene.
Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) are exposed as a couple when Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) circulates a memo about public displays of affection. Jim secretly informs Pam that Dwight and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) are dating, only to discover that she already knew. Meanwhile, Dwight attempts to make amends for the death of Angela's cat Sprinkles by giving her Garbage, a stray cat he found in his barn, but she rejects the gift. Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) tries to restart her relationship with Ryan, an effort he ignores until she tells him she is pregnant. When they go out to dinner, Kelly tells him she pretended to be pregnant to try to get them back together. Back at the office, Ryan asks Pam to create a logo for Dunder Mifflin Infinity. Pam is excited about the opportunity to use her art background, but Ryan uses the logo as an excuse to ask her out, which he does in front of Jim. Pam responds that she is dating Jim, leaving the new boss thoroughly embarrassed.
The episode was the first episode of the series directed by Craig Zisk, who directed episodes of Nip/Tuck, Weeds, Scrubs, Smallville and The Single Guy. "Dunder Mifflin Infinity" was written by Michael Schur, who plays Dwight's Amish cousin Mose.[2]
For Ryan's new appearance this season, the writers originally had B. J. Novak grow a goatee. Show runner and executive producer Greg Daniels decided against it, feeling that "a goatee would make Ryan a flat-out chump. And we wanted it to be more subtle." In addition to his five o'clock shadow, Ryan now wears black clothes. He explained, "We wanted him to dress as obnoxious[ly] as possible. As much black as possible."[3] In conjunction with the episode, a "Dunder Mifflin Infinity" website was created where fans could sign up and become "employees" of different "branches", and perform tasks such as designing a logo for the company or making Creed look young again.[4]
"Dunder Mifflin Infinity" received 4.5/11 in the ages 18–49 demographic in the Nielsen ratings. This means that 4.5 percent of all households with an 18- to 49-year-old living in it watched the episode, and eleven percent had their televisions tuned to the channel at any point. The episode was watched by 8.49 million viewers.[5]
"Dunder Mifflin Infinity" received mixed reviews from critics, with Michael driving his car into the lake being particularly panned by critics and viewers. Entertainment Weekly's Christine Fenno commented that she thought "Michael seemed a bit more focused than usual, even competent at moments. And then he drove into a lake."[6] Jack Rodgers, from TV Guide said that his "favorite thing about this episode was the sly parallel that connects the three love stories" and "Michael’s obsession with sticking to his old methods rather than learning to change and embrace technology".[7] Will Leitch of New York criticized the episode, saying that Michael driving into the lake felt more like the actions of a "cartoon character", than "based in reality". Leitch did say that if "we can get Michael out of that lake and back in a conference room with Ryan, we'll have something."[8]



"Threat Level Midnight" is the seventeenth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 143rd episode overall. It originally aired on NBC on February 17, 2011. The episode was written by B. J. Novak and directed by Tucker Gates.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company.  In this episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) screens his action film Threat Level Midnight to the office after ten years of writing, shooting, re-shooting, and editing. This film features Michael as Agent Michael Scarn, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) as Scarn's robot butler, and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) as Scarn's archnemesis "Goldenface".
The episode's genesis stems from the second season entry "The Client", in which the office discovers Michael's incomplete film screenplay. "Threat Level Midnight" features the reappearance of several actors and actresses who had not appeared on the show in years. It also marks the final appearance for Rashida Jones (Karen Filippelli). Due to the nature of Michael's film, scenes were filmed to create the illusion that they had been shot years prior to the episode. "Threat Level Midnight" was viewed by 6.41 million viewers and received a 3.3 rating among adults between the age of 18 and 49. The episode was the highest-rated NBC series of the week that it aired, and received acclaim from critics, many of whom enjoyed the humor and the continuity references to the show's past. In December 2019, the entire film (25 minutes with no episode clips) was released on The Office's YouTube channel.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) screens his action film Threat Level Midnight to the office after 11 years of writing, shooting, re-shooting and editing. The film's characters are played by people who have either worked at the Dunder Mifflin Scranton branch in the past decade, or those whom Michael has interacted with in the last few years.
Narrated by Stanley Hudson, the plot for the movie is as follows. After secret agent Michael Scarn (played by Michael) is forced into retirement due to the death of his wife Catherine Zeta-Scarn at the hands of Goldenface (played by Jim Halpert), the President of the United States of America (played by Darryl Philbin) requests that he prevent Goldenface from blowing up the NHL All-Star Game and killing several hostages. Scarn goes undercover and learns how to play hockey from famed instructor Cherokee Jack (played by Creed Bratton), killing another hockey player (played by Oscar Martinez) to make it into the game. His robot butler Samuel (played by Dwight Schrute) intercepts the name of a Goldenface agent, nightclub singer Jasmine Windsong (played by Jan Levinson). He learns the location of the hostages via a coded message from Windsong shortly before she is killed by one of Goldenface's assassins. Scarn and Samuel confront Goldenface to try to rescue the hostages, and Goldenface reveals to them the bomb is in the hockey puck. Scarn refuses to forgive Goldenface for killing his wife, and he is shot. He later recuperates (with Pam Halpert's mother Helene playing a hospital nurse), but when he and Samuel bring their intel to the President, they find that the President was in on it all along, wanting to blow up the stadium for the insurance money. Depressed, Scarn goes to a bar to drown his sorrows. Led by the bartender Billy (played by Andy Bernard), the patrons of the bar sing a song called "The Scarn" which he danced to with his wife, which cheers Scarn up immensely. With his self-confidence restored, Scarn infiltrates the game, while also learning from Samuel that Cherokee Jack has died. While Samuel rescues the hostages, Scarn is instructed by Cherokee Jack's ghost, and is able to hit the puck out of the stadium, saving the day, restoring Billy's satellite TV reception, and blowing up Goldenface in the process. Scarn once again retires, but is immediately called back into action by the President, and the narrator is revealed to be an elderly Scarn.
Michael had shown the office a "work in progress" cut of the film years ago, but the employees all mistook it for a comedy, and Michael was so offended by their laughing that he shut down the screening. Everyone is very eager to see Michael's film, albeit only because they all appear in it, and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) warns everyone to be mindful of how sensitive Michael is and not laugh. However, Pam is unable to keep herself from crying out in horror when she sees her mother cast in the film as a scantily clad nurse, and Jim (John Krasinski) fails to fully suppress his laughter at the scene of "The Scarn", so Michael angrily stops the movie and takes it away. Michael asks Holly Flax (Amy Ryan) what she thought and she does not seem impressed. Michael gets angry at her because he considers the film his "dream", and he then offers the rest of the office the opportunity to finish seeing the film, which they happily accept. While watching, Michael begins noting how the film is not really very good; he steps outside and tells Holly that it is a bad film but also one that people are having fun watching. They sit down and laugh with the rest of the office through the film's conclusion, especially at Michael recalling the film's interference with an actual hockey game, and the plot-hole at the end of the film in which Scarn goes back to work for the evil President.
This episode was written by executive producer B. J. Novak, who also portrays Ryan Howard on the show. It was directed by Tucker Gates, his fourth directing credit of the series. Michael's screenplay for Threat Level Midnight was the subplot for second season episode "The Client", and had subsequently been referenced to in "Email Surveillance", "Product Recall", "Money", "Dinner Party", and "Prince Family Paper". The idea for the episode came from series' star Steve Carell, who was leaving the show at the end of the season.[3] He said that he enjoyed the idea behind the "Threat Level Midnight" script and wanted to do a story centered on it.[4]
Several former recurring and minor characters make reappearances. Rashida Jones, who portrayed Karen Fillipelli, noted that it felt like "a time warp" to be asked to reappear on the show.[4] Jan Levinson, Michael's former boss and lover played by Melora Hardin, reappeared in the "Jan-as-diva" mode.[4] Tony Gardner, portrayed by Mike Bruner, cameos as a pianist. Novak rationalized that, despite Gardner being fired on his first day, the character might have appeared in the movie because he was "intrigued" and "flattered" that Michael—after apologizing "profusely"—asked him, or that he might have been "lonely".[4]
Andy Buckley, who portrayed David Wallace, former CFO of Dunder Mifflin, was originally billed as a guest star for this episode and his character was supposed to have a part in Michael's movie. When NBC first aired the episode, Wallace's scenes were not shown. It was revealed by Novak that, in the script, Wallace was Michael's first choice as Goldenface, but turned it down because "it wouldn't look good to people at Corporate".[4] Furthermore, Buckley filmed a talking head interview, which had his character exclaiming his regret in not taking the role. This scene was deleted due to time constraints. The scene does not appear on the Season 7 DVD.  The script also had a scene that brought back Amy Adams' character Katy, but it was cut because Adams was working on a movie during the time this episode was filmed. Ellie Kemper, who portrays Erin Hannon on the series, did not appear in the movie; Novak reasoned that Michael had finished his filming long before she arrived at the office, and had spent the remaining years "editing and procrastinating".[4]
Writer Novak cites the episode as the "most conceptually ambitious" in the show's history.[4] More than half the episode consisted of footage from the film. Originally, the producers considered showing just the movie, but they felt that it "would feel like a gimmick or experiment", and so it was decided that the film would be intercut with shots of the office reacting to the film.[4] In order to make the film seem as if Michael had created it, the film used was colorized in post-production to make it seem as if it were of a cheaper quality than the normal high-quality film that the series used. Certain shooting methods, like hand-held and zooms, were nixed, except for in cases where they could be presented in a "poorly-executed" manner.[4] This was done in a way to make it appear that Michael at least knew what he was doing; Novak explained that the crew "didn't want the joke of the episode to be how bad he was at filmmaking" because it would "be a little easy and a little out of character".[4] To create the fake dummy of Toby that exploded, Paul Lieberstein was required to spend several hours in a full-face mold that reportedly "unnerved him greatly".[4] Two molds were made. Both were filled with explosives, but one was filled with fake blood. The detonation of both was shot with slow-motion cameras. However, the explosion of the dummy head filled with fake blood was considered by the producers to be "too disturbing for us and arguably too disturbing for Michael", and so the tamer explosion was used.[4]
Due to the nature of Michael's film, Novak realized that scenes would have to be filmed as if they had been shot years prior to the episode. In order to successfully pull this off, editor David Rogers and script supervisor Veda Semame were tasked with "mapping out" every scene to make sure the continuity of the series was preserved.[4] Novak later elaborated on the continuity during an interview with The Office fansite OfficeTally. The scene featuring "The Scarn" would have been filmed after the corporate merger that occurred during the third season; this would explain Karen's willingness to deliver her lines, as she would be "eager to fit in".[4] Stanley's voiceover was recorded "on a lunch break" sometime after the fourth season episode "Local Ad" because he had "got a big kick out of seeing himself" in Michael's commercial.[4] Helene's scenes were filmed sometime when Michael was dating her during the early part of the sixth season.[4]
In addition to the mapping out of sequences, the episode features a short sequence that was shot to look as if it had been filmed during the show's second season, although the scene itself was filmed in 2011. Novak explained that, in order to recreate the shot, great lengths had to be taken to ensure the authenticity of the footage. Series Department Head make-up artist  LaVerne Caracuzzi-Milazzo and Hair Department Head  Kim M. Ferry "put great care and effort into recreating the characters' looks from earlier seasons"; Novak, for instance wore "the same bright blue shirt that Ryan used to favor" and fake sideburns were glued onto the actor's face to "match the era".[4] He also stated that the actors "remembered those dynamics [from the second season] and fell right back into them."[4] This is not the first nor the last time this trick has been used on the show. For instance, during the cold opening for the sixth season episode "Shareholder Meeting" featuring "Recyclops", a montage of Dwight harassing past receptionists was shown.[5] Furthermore, the episode "Customer Loyalty" from the ninth season featured a montage of Jim setting up a prank supposedly during the show's second season.[6]
According to the clippings on the wall, Scarn had previously saved the NFL, MLB, and NBA all-star games.[7] Several Billy Joel songs play throughout the episode, such as "Running on Ice" and "Pressure".[4][7] A Dave Barry page-a-day calendar is featured in a montage to illustrate the passing of time.[4][7] Michael mentions both Oceans 11 and Antz in defense of his movie. The latter is featured in a diatribe Michael delivers about Woody Allen and how you should always listen to your fans.[7]
One of the episode's deleted scenes is a post-credits scene featuring Michael Scarn and his robot butler breaking the fourth wall and telling the audience to "go home". This is a reference to Ferris Bueller's Day Off's post-credits scene.[citation needed]  In the YouTube, uncut release, this scene is present.
The name of the character Cherokee Jack is a reference to the film Red Zone Cuba, known for having been featured on Mystery Science Theater 3000.[citation needed]
In its original American broadcast on February 17, 2011, "Threat Level Midnight" was viewed by an estimated 6.41 million viewers and received a 3.3 rating/9 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.  This means that it was seen by 3.3 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a decrease in viewers from the previous episode.[8] The full film, which has a runtime of 25 minutes, is available on the seventh season DVD and Blu-ray,[9] and was made available on iTunes on February 18, 2011.[10]
I know there are still quite a few episodes to go before we say goodbye to Michael for good, but I almost wish this had been his swan song. Why not go out on a high note? I'm sure the writers have much more in store for him as the season winds down ... but this could have been the last episode of The Office I ever saw and it would leave me smiling and satisfied.
—Cindy White, IGN[11]IGN writer Cindy White awarded the episode a 9 out of 10—denoting an "amazing" episode—and praised the self-awareness of Michael Scott and Steve Carell's performance. She ultimately said the episode was good enough to be Carell's last episode.[11] Bonnie Stiernberg of Paste wrote that "there wasn’t a ton of action this week, but it was just enough to keep Michael’s personal growth on our radar as we continue to brace ourselves for his grand finale."[12]
Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode five out of five stars, and called it one of "the best episodes in years". Forcella praised the "continuity and callbacks". He also noted that the tension between Michael and Holly was "easing the viewers towards the end of Carrell's  [sic] stay at The Office".[13] Alan Sepinwall wrote that, despite the episode being "goofy ... silly, and [and] about as nonsensical as the film itself", "Threat Level Midnight" was "a fun, sweet tour through the history of the Michael Scott era".[14]
Myles McNutt of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B" and wrote that "there is no question that [it] is a fan service." He called it a "mixed bag"; on one hand, he noted that some of the scenes were clever, such as Darryl's opinion on portraying a black president before Obama was elected. On the other hand, he felt that Michael's "juvenile" response to Holly was uncharacteristic, and the "oddly high production values and camera work" were unrealistic for the show. He also felt the inclusion of some characters—such as Roy, Jan, or Karen—did not make sense in the context of the series. He concluded that while the episode had issues, "the actual content of Threat Level Midnight was successful in more ways than I had expected".[15] Rick Porter of Zap2it gave the episode a mixed review, saying that it "had moments that were a huge amount of fun, both inside Michael's labor of love and in people's reaction to it. But it also felt a little bit clip-showy."[16]
The "Season of the Forge" update for Destiny 2 introduced a shotgun named "Threat Level" with the flavor text "Hold on 'till midnight".
In 2015, Welsh pop punk band Neck Deep released their second studio album, Life's Not Out To Get You, which contained the song "Threat Level Midnight". Likewise, Green Day side project The Network released a song titled "Threat Level Midnight" on their 2020 album. Green Day member Billie Joe Armstrong is a fan of The Office.[17]
Various lines from the episode are sampled in the song "My Strange Addiction" by the American singer-songwriter Billie Eilish for her debut album When We All Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go? (2019).[18]


"Blood Drive" is the eighteenth episode of the fifth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 90th overall episode of the series. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on March 5, 2009.
In the episode, a lonely Michael strikes up a pleasant conversation with a woman while giving blood, but passes out before he can learn her name. He holds a Valentine's Day singles party at the Dunder Mifflin office with the hopes of meeting her. Meanwhile, Jim and Pam go on an awkward double date with Phyllis and Bob Vance.
The episode was written by Brent Forrester and directed by Randall Einhorn. It featured the first appearance of actress Lisa K. Wyatt as Lynn, who would make recurrent appearances as a love interest for Kevin. The episode received generally mixed reviews and, according to Nielsen ratings, was watched by 8.63 million viewers during its original broadcast.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is depressed because it is the first Valentine's Day since he and Holly Flax broke up. Michael donates blood at a mobile blood drive being held in Dunder Mifflin’s parking lot and has a nice conversation with a female donor (Katie Aselton) laying next to him. When they both finish at the same time, Michael passes out because he did not eat for three days before giving blood out of nerves, and when he wakes up she is gone. A disappointed Michael finds a glove he assumes she left behind and takes it, hoping she will come back for it. When Michael goes back into the office, he gathers all the single employees into the conference room to discuss their own personal romantic dilemmas. After becoming further depressed by their sad dating stories, Michael tries lifting their spirits by holding a singles mixer. He puts up flyers which also advertise the finding of a missing glove, hoping his mystery woman will come to the party as a result.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) receive remarks about their relationship from the rest of the office, who are down due to their own struggling love lives, with Michael threatening them with banishment after they constantly gaze happily on each other. Taking pity on them as a fellow coupled person, Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) invites them to have lunch with her and her husband Bob Vance (Robert R. Shafer). Their meal initially goes well, but Phyllis and Bob disappear for a while after their food arrives. Hungry and not wanting to be rude by eating before they get back, Jim and Pam check the bathrooms and hear Phyllis and Bob having sex in the disabled stall. Phyllis and Bob finally come back to their table and Jim and Pam lose their appetites and look on in disgust as Phyllis and Bob seductively put food in each other's mouths.
A few outsiders attend Michael's party. One of the attendees (Tate Hanyok) strikes up a conversation with Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), who tries to sell her paper; Dwight becomes angry when she tells him she already has a paper supplier. Another attendee named Lynn (Lisa K. Wyatt) converses with Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), who is still somewhat depressed over his breakup with his fiancée Stacy and walks away when he admits it was she who broke it off. Kevin returns later to apologize to Lynn and admits he gets nervous talking to pretty girls; Lynn is flattered and gives Kevin her e-mail address. Afterwards, Michael is disappointed the woman who lost her glove does not show up and tells the employees they can go home early, but the empathetic staff decide to stay, and encourage Michael to leave with them when she doesn't arrive.
Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) attempts to get a cookie from a blood drive nurse at the drive by claiming he gave blood earlier and showing a cotton ball taped to his arm as proof. The nurse recognizes he is lying because they are using band-aids; a frustrated Stanley leaves, and tells Phyllis, who is about to try the same trick. Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) leaves the blood mobile with a bag of donated blood in his coat pocket.
"Blood Drive" was written by Brent Forrester and directed by Randall Einhorn. It featured the first appearance of actress Lisa K. Wyatt as Lynne, who would continue to make frequent appearances as a romantic interest for Kevin.[1] During the episode, the Ed Helms character Andy is described as attending solo honeymoons in Napa Valley, The Bahamas and Walt Disney World Resort, which he previously booked before breaking off his engagement with Angela. Following the episode, NBC posted fake photos of Ed Helms visiting those locations on the show's official Angela Martin and Andrew Bernard wedding website. The photos included Helms scuba-diving, standing in front of a hot air balloon and visiting Disney's Epcot Center, and includes an assurance by Andy that he "wanted all my bros and bras in cyberspace to know that the Ol' Nard Dog is doing just fine.”[2][3]
The official website for The Office included three cut scenes from "Blood Drive" within a week of its original release. In the first 85-second clip, Dwight assures his office-mates that the blood taken in the bloodmobile will not be used in any "ritualistic ways". Later, while giving blood himself, he asks the hospital employee, "How do I know it's not going to go into a person who will later come back to kill me?"[4] The second clip was two minutes of extended footage from the singles party. Meredith talks about her husband leaving her for a garbage-woman whom her kids now consider their real mother instead of herself, and Dwight said he believes his soulmate, "probably died 700 years ago in feudal Japan after having impersonated a samurai, or at the very least she lives somewhere outside the Scranton Wilkes-Barre corridor."[5] In the final 90-second clip, Dwight shows off his bobblehead doll collection to a woman, Creed tries unsuccessfully to pick up Lynne, and Dwight gets rid of an attractive male visitor who Michael fears could be competition. Dwight tells him the party is cancelled "due to a death in the elevator".[6]
During the singles party, Angela mentions that two men previously had a duel over her in Ohio, which is the second duel fought over her. This is a reference to "The Duel", an Office episode from earlier in the fifth season, in which Andy and Dwight duel for her affections in the Dunder Mifflin parking lot.[7] In the beginning of the "Blood Drive" episode, Jim, Pam, Michael and Dwight drive a phone salesman away by repeatedly saying "Ayyyy!" in the style of Fonzie, the popular character from the sitcom Happy Days.[1][7][8][9] The mysterious woman leaves a single pink glove behind after meeting Michael, in a similar fashion to the classic folk tale Cinderella.[1][7] Kelly refers to the encounter as "like a modern-day Enchanted".[9] Michael says he was hit by "Cupid's sparrow", a mistaken reference to the Roman mythological god who would inspire love by shooting people with arrows.[8]
Michael makes jokes about feeling like a human juice box, describing himself as "Type O-Cean Spray", a combination of type O blood and the Ocean Spray juice company,[1] and as "Hawaiian Blood Punch", a reference to the fruit punch drink Hawaiian Punch.[10] Jim says, "I have a lot of work to do this afternoon. Those mines aren't going to sweep themselves," a reference to the computer game Minesweeper.[10] Ryan is said to be "sleeping with random prostitutes" in Thailand; prostitution in the Southeast Asian nation is technically illegal, but is in practice tolerated and regulated.[11] Kevin said his previous engagement ended immediately after he remarked that the Philadelphia Eagles, a National Football League football team, might have a chance at winning the NFC East division championship.[1]
In its original American broadcast on March 5, 2009, "Blood Drive" was watched by 8.63 million overall viewers, which was about average for the series at the time. The episode received a 5.1 rating/14 share among viewers aged between 18 and 34, and a 4.5 rating/11 share among viewers between 18 and 49. The episode of 30 Rock, which aired at 9:30 p.m. directly after The Office, was seen by 7.35 million viewers, an increase of 30 percent in viewership from the previous week's 6.3 million. Commentators said "Blood Drive" was directly responsible for this ratings increase for 30 Rock because the lead-in Office episode was new, whereas the previous week's episode was a repeat.[12][13]
The episode received generally mixed reviews. Brian Howard of The Journal News described it as "classic Office" and praised the camaraderie the staff showed for each other and the "bizarre discomfort" of the double date with Jim, Pam, Phyllis and Bob. Howard described Dwight and Kevin as the episode's stand-outs.[14] Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger said the episode lacked many laugh-out-loud moments, but was effective because the characters are so well developed: "The Office has, over the years, become as much of a kitchen sink drama as it is a comedy. ... The characters are so well-drawn by now, and for the most part so likable, that a sweet, low-key episode about Michael and the staff bonding over their singlehood worked even without a lot of memorable jokes."[8] Travis Fickett of IGN described the episode as "familiar territory, but it has plenty of fun moments." Fickett praised the scene with Carell and the mystery woman, and Jim and Pam's lunch. But Fickett said the series needed to address why Pam was staying with the company: "Jim and Pam still work there because, well, that's part of the show – but there really isn't a very good reason as to why these two would still be at this dead end job."[15]
Will Leitch of New York magazine described "Blood Drive" as "mostly a placeholder episode", although he said it was "legitimately touching" when the cast stays late with Michael during the party.[11] Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club, who gave the episode a B+ grade, said the episode included both pathos and "big laughs". He particularly liked the joke of Andy attending all his honeymoons: "The thought of Andy forlornly embarking on a couple's massage solo or sharing a romantic hot-air balloon ride with himself was funny and sad in the best Office tradition."[9] Entertainment Weekly writer Jeff Labrecque said the episode was "unusually sweet", but said the double date with Pam, Jim, Phyllis and Bob "felt slightly undercooked".[1] Josh McAuliffe of The Times-Tribune of Scranton, Pennsylvania, said the episode was "a highly amusing, if not fantastic, half-hour" and particularly praised the opening scene involving the phone system salesman.[7]
Several reviewers described Dwight's quote, "I can retract my penis up into itself," as the most memorable line of the episode.[9][11][14] Phyllis and Bob Vance's sexual rendezvous in the handicapped restroom during the double date ranked number 8 in phillyBurbs.com's top ten moments from the fifth season of The Office.[16] "Blood Drive" was voted the seventeenth-highest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 7.86 out of 10.[17]


"Body Language" is the twenty-third episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 123rd episode overall. It aired on April 29, 2010 on NBC.
In the episode, Pam and Jim work on their first sales pitch together to Donna, the manager of a local restaurant, but Michael keeps misreading the signals she's putting out. Dwight encourages Kelly to try out for the minority training program, but is forced to work against her after finding out her future plans after she is accepted into the program.
"Body Language" has received positive reviews from critics and was viewed by 7.09 million viewers.
Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) work on their first sales pitch together to Donna (Amy Pietz), the manager of a local restaurant. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) employs several tactical dating and psychology moves to flirt with her, including juxtaposing pictures of himself with attractive people. He also gives Donna a Victoria's Secret catalog and flashes subliminal messages of the word "SEX" in his presentation. Throughout the day, he makes numerous unsuccessful attempts to kiss her. Michael discusses these attempts with the office workers, who largely interpret Donna as uninterested. Only Pam argues that she may have some interest, pointing out that Donna had opportunities to leave earlier in the day. At the end of the sales pitch, Donna leaves hurriedly, but remains in her car. Michael finds one of Donna's accessories in the office, giving him a pretext to chase after her. Though even Pam argues against it, Michael takes the opportunity and shares two kisses with Donna in the parking lot. He returns to the office and brags to the office workers, who are skeptical of his story.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) learns that Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) is interested in applying for the Sabre minority executive training program "Print in All Colors". He encourages Kelly (Mindy Kaling) to apply for the position, preferring that a "malleable simpleton who can be bought for a few fashion magazines" fill the role rather than a competent worker. Later, Kelly mentions to Dwight that she and Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) are planning to make Ryan the Scranton office manager once Kelly has assumed a position of authority, thus confounding Dwight's plans. Dwight attempts to sabotage the arrangement using racial semantics, uncovering that Indians are, in fact, Caucasians by definition. However, Gabe tells him that Darryl has decided not to apply as it would leave him no time for his softball league, leaving Kelly as the only applicant. Dwight turns to Stanley and Oscar, but they are both too scared of Kelly to compete with her for the position. In a last desperate attempt, he interrupts Kelly's interview to present Hide from the warehouse as a new applicant. Outraged by Dwight's betrayal, she storms out of the room. Kelly ultimately is accepted into the program. Though Dwight congratulates her, she promises revenge on him for introducing Hide as an applicant.
It was written by Justin Spitzer, his second writing credit of the season after "Shareholder Meeting"; and it was  directed by Mindy Kaling — which marks her television directorial debut, as she previously directed the "Subtle Sexuality" webisodes — who also portrays Kelly Kapoor on the series. The episode also features the second guest appearance of Amy Pietz as Donna (her first being in "Happy Hour") and Zach Woods as Gabe Lewis.[1]
In its original American broadcast, "Body Language" was watched by 7.09 million viewers, with a 3.6 rating and an 11 share in the 18–49 demographic.[2] The episode also received a 4.2 in the 18–34 male demographic coming first in its timeslot for the demographic with the closest competition being Grey's Anatomy with a 1.7.[3] The show ranked 10th in the 18–49 weekly ratings making it NBC's highest-rated show.[4]
The episode received positive reviews from critics. Cindy White of IGN gave the episode an 8.8 saying, "While the episode probably won't stand out among the great Office episodes, it did everything you want an Office episode to do – make you laugh, sigh and cringe, sometimes all at once."[5] Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club gave the episode a  A− writing "All in all, it was a fine episode. The only reason I’m not giving it an A is because it lacked the tragicomic heft of the best Office episodes."[6] Joel Keller of TV Squad gave the episode a positive review as well saying "Despite the fact that we all knew that Michael and Donna were going to end up in a liplock, the journey there was still funny. I mean, who doesn't like seeing Kevin trying to push his manboobs together, or Andy talking about how the doctor who was feeling his punctured 'scrote' was just teasing doing so to up his bill? [sic]"[7] Darren Franich of Entertainment Weekly gave the episode a positive review writing "straightforward and funny outing".[8]
Not all the reviews were positive. Alan Sepinwall gave the episode a mixed review saying "wasn't nearly as bad as this season's 'Mafia' – nor was Michael as idiotic in this one as he was there — but it was still a fairly uncomfortable, airless outing, one where nearly all the laughs could be found in the Dwight/Daryl/Kelly subplot" and said that if Steve Carell leaves, the show could actually work.[9]


Randall Einhorn (born December 7, 1963) is an American television cinematographer, director, and producer, best known for his work on The Office, Wilfred,[1] It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia, Survivor, and Abbott Elementary.
Born in Cincinnati, Ohio, Einhorn graduated from Finneytown High School in 1982.
He began his career in the late 1990s, working sporadically as director and cinematographer on several different projects including Fear Factor, Eco-Challenge, and Survivor, for which he was nominated for two Emmy Awards.[2]
Einhorn is best known for his work as a cinematographer and occasional director on The Office. He also directed The Accountants, a ten-part webisode spin-off of The Office which appeared online between the second and third seasons. In tribute to Einhorn's contribution to the series, the Season 6 episode of The Office, The Cover-Up, was dedicated to Larry Einhorn, Randall's father, who died on April 20, 2010. Randall also plays the role of CFO of Dunder Mifflin, until he resigns in Season 2, Episode 2 of "The Office"
Between 2009 and 2011, while still working on The Office, Einhorn took on the roles of producer and director for 14 episodes of It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia. He went on to direct several episodes of Parks and Recreation and Fargo and produce and direct for Nurse Jackie and all but three episodes of Wilfred.
In May 2015, it was announced that Einhorn would be the executive producer and director of The Muppets[3], executive produced and co-created by Bill Prady (co-creator of The Big Bang Theory) and Bob Kushell (Anger Management, 3rd Rock from the Sun, The Simpsons).[4] The show was canceled after one season.
Since working on The Muppets, Einhorn has continued to produce and direct for various comic film and television projects, including The Mick[5] and The Kids Are Alright. Recently, he and his Sad Unicorn production company made a multi-year, first-look deal with Warner Bros. Television.[6]
He was an executive producer and a director on the Peabody Award-winning hit ABC's Abbott Elementary.[7]
In March 2023, it was announced that Einhorn would direct the upcoming ABC comedy pilot Public Defenders, starring Anthony Anderson.[8][9]


"Dream Team" is the twenty-second episode of the fifth season of the television series The Office and the 94th overall episode of the series. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on April 9, 2009. In the episode, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) and Michael Scott (Steve Carell) try to keep each other motivated as the two form their new paper company together. Michael recruits Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) for the company, which sets up a new office in the same building complex as Dunder Mifflin. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) tries to impress new boss Charles Miner (guest star Idris Elba) by claiming to be a soccer enthusiast, but it backfires when Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) convinces the two to face each other in a game.
The episode was written by Novak and directed by Paul Feig. The episode aired the same day as the Office episode "Michael Scott Paper Company"; the debut episode of the new NBC show Parks and Recreation was shown between the two episodes. "Dream Team" marked the return of Ryan, who had not appeared on the show since the November 2008 episode "Frame Toby". The episode received generally positive reviews and, according to Nielsen ratings, was watched by 7.2 million viewers and captured the most viewers in its time slot for adults between the ages of 18 and 49. "Dream Team" received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series.
In the cold open, Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) struggles to correctly transfer phone calls, after having been moved to reception by Charles.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell), having left Dunder Mifflin with Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) to form his own company, is having trouble starting his first day as president of the Michael Scott Paper Company. Pam tries to keep things together and suggests they create a list of things to do to maintain a positive working atmosphere. Michael sets up a meeting with a potential investor and makes a list of potential salesmen to join the company. He receives a letter from his condo association saying that running a business from his condominium is in violation of his residence agreement, so he needs to find office space for the company. Michael and Pam leave to find potential salesmen and then have their meeting with the potential investor.
Michael's first stop is his old part-time telemarketing job to pick up Vikram (Ranjit Chowdhry). Next, they stop at a bowling alley, where Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), with bleached blond hair, is now working the shoe counter. Michael asks Ryan to join them, despite heavy protests from Pam. Ryan is convinced and steals two pairs of bowling shoes on the way out. They head to the meeting with the investor, who turns out to be Michael's "nana" (Connie Sawyer), at a nursing home. Michael gives her his pitch, but she does not believe his new venture will yield success and refuses to fund his company.
Meanwhile, at the Dunder Mifflin office, Charles Miner (Idris Elba) is revealed to have an obsession with soccer, and the rest of the employees pretend to feel the same way about it. When Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) tries claiming to be an experienced soccer player, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), attempting to humiliate Jim, suggests that the staff play a game after work in the parking lot. During the game, when Charles kicks the ball towards Jim, he ducks and the ball hits Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) in the face. Charles berates Jim for ducking, and Dwight mocks him.
In the car leaving the nursing home, Vikram asks to be brought back to the telemarketing job after he learns "nana" is a term for grandmother. Back at Michael's condo, a frustrated Pam loses her composure and tells Michael she made a mistake leaving Dunder Mifflin and only did it because she was tired of being a receptionist. Michael calms her down, telling her the reality is they both quit and that their only option is to continue trying with the new company. Michael leases office space in the Scranton Business Park, where Dunder Mifflin is located; it turns out to be a large storeroom directly underneath the Dunder Mifflin office. Michael and Pam put their company name in the office lobby directory where they encounter Charles. Michael taunts Charles that he cannot kick them out of the building now because they are leasing their own space.
"Dream Team" was written by B. J. Novak and directed by Paul Feig. It originally aired on April 9, 2009, the same day as the episode "Michael Scott Paper Company"; the debut episode of the new NBC show Parks and Recreation was shown between the two episodes.[1] It marks the first appearance of Novak as Ryan since "Frame Toby" in November 2008, when Novak briefly left the show to film his role in Quentin Tarantino's Inglourious Basterds.[2][3] Mindy Kaling, an Office writer who also stars as Kelly Kapoor, thought of the idea of Ryan dying his hair blond.[4] Novak wore a baseball cap in public between the times his hair was dyed and when the episode aired, in order to make the reveal a surprise, and even kept the cap on when he and the rest of the cast and crew did a public forum and Q&A session. "Dream Team" was the third of six episodes guest starring Idris Elba, best known as Stringer Bell from the television series The Wire. Elba said he did not watch the episode when it aired because "I'm hypercritical about my work, so I try not to torture myself."[5]
Prior to the episode airing, NBC set up a web site for the new Michael Scott Paper Company at michaelscottpapercompany.com,[3][6] which included a mission statement for the company, photos of the new office space and a downloadable copy of the coupon for "unparalleled customer service" featured in the episode "Michael Scott Paper Company".[7] Another official NBC site, dundermifflininfinity.com, created a Flash game inspired by the episode, in which the viewer attempts to kick a soccer ball past Jim in the office parking lot and hit Phyllis in the face.[8][9]
The official The Office website included two cut scenes from "Dream Team" within a week of the episode's original release. In one-minute-long clip, Andy continues brown-nosing to Charles; during a documentary interview, Andy says he was not the teacher's pet in school, but that he "walked the teacher's pet, and fed it, and bathed it".[10] A second one-minute clip involves the soccer game itself: Dwight excitedly sets up the game, Jim tries not to show Charles he does not know what "offside" means and Creed picks up the ball and hurls it at Kelly.[11]
Michael refers to his old telemarketing job where he met salesman Vikram; this is a reference to the fourth season episode "Money", in which Michael briefly works a second job as a telemarketer.[12] The bowling alley Ryan works at is Idle Hour Lanes, an actual bowling alley in Dickson City, Pennsylvania, which is just outside the show's setting of Scranton.[13] When Michael discusses song parodies, he names "My Stumps" in a reference to The Black Eyed Peas song "My Humps" and "Achy Breaky Fart" in a reference to the Billy Ray Cyrus song "Achy Breaky Heart".[1] In discussing the formation of the new paper company, Pam refers to the early years of Apple Inc., which she said began in a garage. The seniors at the retirement center where Michael discusses his business are watching Maury, the talk show hosted by Maury Povich, in the background.[12]
In its original American broadcast on April 9, 2009, "Dream Team" was watched by 7.2 million overall viewers, according to Nielsen ratings. The episode earned more ratings than the Parks and Recreation pilot that immediately followed it (which had 6.8 million viewers) but had less than "Michael Scott Paper Company", which came right after Parks and Recreation and had 8 million viewers.[14] "Dream Team", as well as "Michael Scott Paper Company", had the most viewers in its time slot among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[15]
"Frankly, The Office kind of needed this sort of shake-up, even if it’s something as simple as another room to put all our characters in. (Though it’s smaller than Michael realized: “165 square feet seemed like a lot.”)"
Will Leitch of New York[3]"Dream Team" received generally positive reviews. Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger said he was enjoying the new paper company storyline and that "Dream Team" was funnier than "Michael Scott Paper Company". Sepinwall said the final scene with Michael trying to comfort Pam in the car was a "good payoff" which was well acted by Steve Carell and Jenna Fischer, and "yet another reminder that Michael does know what he's doing some of the time, which means Pam wasn't a complete idiot for following him out the door." He also liked Kevin's struggle with the phones in the beginning, but said the storyline between Jim and Charles was getting repetitive and, "It would help if the writers ever gave Idris Elba something funny to do."[2] Steven Mullen of The Tuscaloosa News called the episode "stellar", said the Charles Miner soccer subplot ended "perfectly" and said, "Watching [Michael's] fears bubble beneath the surface and slowly erode Pam's confidence was a masterwork."[16]
Travis Fickett of IGN said he was happy with the new, unpredictable direction The Office was taking. He particularly praised the Michael/Pam relationship in the episode, as well as soccer subplot involving Jim and Charles and the return of Ryan; he said Ryan's new bleached blond hair and his theft of bowling shoes were particularly funny moments.[17] Will Leitch of New York magazine said the episode has provided a change the show needed, and said, "Considering how unlikely it was that The Office was going to allow Michael and Pam to degrade into homelessness and squalor, the show has handled the predictable transition as well as possible."[3] Keith Phipps of The A.V. Club said the episode included a good exploration of Michael and Pam's relationship; he said "they're weirdly good together". Phipps, who gave the episode an A− grade, also said the Dunder Mifflin material worked well, "although Idris Elba has been so good at portraying a heartless professional it almost doesn’t seem right for anything to break through his icy exterior."[1]
Margaret Lions of Entertainment Weekly said the episode had "strong moments, and some interesting character play [but] I didn't get quite the same buzz from this week's installments as I did from the previous episode." She said "Dream Team" lacks the usual group interactions between the office co-workers, which she said are normally the funniest parts of the show. However, she praised Michael's pep talk to Pam in the final scene, and said the episode was "the best showcase Jenna Fischer has had in years".[12] Entertainment Weekly listed Michael's pep talk to Pam at the end of the episode as one of the 13 highlights from that week in television.[18]
In her list of the top ten moments from the fifth season of The Office, phillyBurbs.com writer Jen Wielgus ranked Michael's formation of the Michael Scott Paper Company in the downstairs storage closet as number one, citing the "Dream Team", "Michael Scott Paper Company" and "Heavy Competition" episodes in particular. She also said she specifically enjoyed the attempt to solicit investments at the retirement home from "Dream Team". Ryan's return to the series, along with his brief return as a temp in the episode "Weight Loss", ranked number 5 in that list.[19] "Dream Team" was voted the fifteenth-highest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 8.00 out of 10.[20]
Claire Scanlon received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series. "Dream Team" accounted for one of the ten Primetime Emmy Award nominations The Office received for the show's fifth season at the 61st Primetime Emmy Awards, which were held on September 20, 2009.[21]

Part 2
"Lecture Circuit" is a two-part episode of the American comedy television series The Office. They constituted the sixteenth and seventeenth episodes of the fifth season and the 88th and 89th overall episodes of the series. The first episode originally aired on NBC on February 5, 2009, and the second on February 12.
During both episodes, Michael and Pam visit the various branches of Dunder Mifflin to make business lectures, and in particular visit the Utica branch – where Jim's ex-girlfriend Karen Filippelli is regional manager, and the Nashua branch, where Michael's ex-girlfriend and the love of his life, Holly is an H.R. rep. In both episodes, Jim and Dwight hit a snag as the new heads of the Party Planning Committee when they forget Kelly's birthday. In the first episode, Andy develops a crush on a customer, and in the second episode, Angela's unhealthy obsession with her cats is spotlighted when she installs a nanny cam.
Both episodes were directed by Ken Kwapis and written by Mindy Kaling, who also plays Kelly Kapoor in the show. "Lecture Circuit" included guest appearances by screenwriter Dan Goor, comedian Rob Huebel and actress Rashida Jones, who reprises her role of Karen, a regular character from the third season. Although the character Holly Flax played a major part in the storyline, actress Amy Ryan did not appear in "Lecture Circuit". The episodes received generally positive reviews. According to Nielsen Media Research, the first part was watched by 8.4 million viewers and the second part was watched by 8.89 million viewers.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is asked to visit the Dunder Mifflin branches to lecture about his success in Scranton. He and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), who is coming along as his assistant and driver, plan to visit every branch except Nashua because Michael is not ready to face his ex-girlfriend Holly Flax, who works there. They first visit the Utica branch, where former Scranton employee Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) is now regional manager. Pam, who is engaged to Karen's ex-boyfriend Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), fears the encounter will be awkward. However, she is pleasantly surprised upon learning Karen is now married and pregnant, and the two get along very well – when Pam reveals her and Jim's engagement, Karen even offers genuine congratulations. Michael's lecture in Utica proves to be a disaster when he pretends to receive a call saying that his father has died, has Pam throw miniature sized Mounds at the audience, and tries to teach the employees a trick for how to memorize names but ends up insulting everybody. Nevertheless, Pam is ecstatic to have found closure with Karen. Later, on the road, Michael tells Pam that he never found closure with Holly and, at Pam's suggestion, they decide to blow off the other lectures and drive to Nashua to find Holly.
Back in Scranton, Jim and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) have been named the reluctant heads of the Party Planning Committee by Michael due to previous fights between Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey). Jim and Dwight prove terrible at the job, and when an upset Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) chastises them for forgetting her birthday, they try to make it up to her by throwing a party but they do a poor job - Dwight chooses brown and gray balloons (because they "match the carpet") and doesn't blow them up all the way, uses toilet paper as streamers, and his banner simply states "IT IS YOUR BIRTHDAY." Jim does just as poorly when he cannot get anyone to contribute money, forgets Kelly's age, and how to spell her name. Dwight reads her file and learns that Kelly spent time in juvenile hall, but is disappointed to learn it does not affect her job performance.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) finds himself attracted to Julia, a female potential client who is talking with Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker). Andy repeatedly acts awkwardly in front of Julia and accidentally sets off her car alarm while trying to look inside and find out what music she likes. After failing to hit on her by singing to the tune of Feist's "1234", Andy admits his attraction to her to Stanley, who then gives the potential client over to Andy in exchange for two of his clients.  After walking her out to the car, Andy tries to kiss her, but is immediately rebuked. Andy apologizes and mentions that he just got out of a relationship. Julia claims she also just got out of a relationship and Andy starts feeling a connection, but she still rejects him and he loses the account.
Michael and Pam arrive at the Nashua branch, only to learn Holly is away on a human relations retreat. They also learn Holly is dating one of the Nashua salesmen named A.J. (Rob Huebel). Deeply upset, Michael is at first unable to go forward with the presentation, but Pam tries to comfort him by telling him that she felt the same way when Jim was dating Karen. She encourages Michael to do the best presentation possible so people will tell Holly about it. He starts the presentation, but it falls apart when Michael starts asking A.J. intimate questions about his relationship with Holly. Michael leaves in the middle of the talk, leaving Pam to awkwardly finish the rest of the presentation. When Michael goes to Holly's desk he cuts a sleeve off her sweater, and notices a document on her computer called "Dear Michael", which he copies onto his flash drive. Later, at a diner, Michael tells Pam about the letter, but she insists reading it would be violating Holly's trust. Pam herself reads the letter and deletes it right after. She does not tell him the exact contents, but she reassures him Holly still has feelings for Michael and it is not over, giving an ecstatic Michael the closure he sought.
In Scranton, the party planning continues to go poorly. Dwight publicly and loudly confronts Kelly about her time in juvenile hall, which turns out to be for stealing the boat of an ex-boyfriend when she was 14. Kelly also declares she hates the cake Jim picked for her, which is completely blank; he later decorates it and ends up spelling her name incorrectly as "Kelley". When Kelly insists the party needs a theme, Jim and Dwight are unable to think of anything. Despite a rough start to the party, they finally settle on offering her one hour of napping or one hour of watching television by putting a Chiclet on the cake to represent a pillow or TV. She loves the idea and chooses the nap.
Angela appears much happier than usual because she bought a new $7,000 cat with the money she received from selling Andy's engagement ring. She has also set up a nanny cam so she can monitor the cats from work. However, she is horrified to see one of her other cats having sex with the new cat, and rushes home to stop it. Later, Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) and Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) watch Angela arrive home on the nanny cam screen, and become incredibly disgusted when Angela starts licking the cat to help clean it. Angela eventually returns to work and coughs up a hairball. Oscar claims the image will haunt him for the rest of his life; both the psychological issues that go behind licking a cat as well as the hairball.
"Lecture Circuit" was directed by Ken Kwapis and written by Mindy Kaling, who also plays Kelly Kapoor in the show. The first episode included a cameo performance by Rashida Jones, a regular cast member during the third season, during which she played Jim Halpert's love interest Karen Filippelli. "Lecture Circuit" aired just two months before Jones began her regular role as Ann Perkins in the NBC comedy series Parks and Recreation, which was created by Office producers Greg Daniels and Michael Schur.[2] Dan Goor, a future writer for Parks and Recreation, made a cameo as Karen's husband in the photographs featured in the part one episode.[3] Rob Huebel, a comedian best known for the MTV sketch comedy series Human Giant, guest starred as Holly's boyfriend, A.J.[4] Amy Ryan, who played Holly Flax in previous episodes, did not appear in either "Lecture Circuit" episode, although the decision by Michael and Pam to visit Holly at the end of the first episode led to speculation about whether she would appear in the second.[2][5][6]
Michael handing out candy bars during his lectures is a reference to the third season episode, "Business School", in which Michael passed out chocolate bars during his speech to a business school classroom.[2] Michael expresses regret for insulting Tony Gardner, the heavyset man who briefly transferred from the Stamford branch of Dunder Mifflin to the Scranton branch, who Michael drives to quit by trying to lift onto a table for an orientation demonstration in the third-season episode, "The Merger".[7] Among the Dunder Mifflin branches Michael visits is Nashua, New Hampshire, where Holly works,[5] and Utica, New York, where Karen works. Michael said he can only prepare for his lectures by listening to "silence or Sam Kinison", an American stand-up comedian known for his extreme and vulgar sense of humor.[2] Michael said he learned the Pledge of Allegiance, the lyrical oath of loyalty to the United States flag, by setting the lyrics to the rhythm of "Old McDonald Had a Farm", a children's song about the various animals on a farm.[8] During one lecture, Michael and Pam both do impressions of the protagonist from Forrest Gump, the 1994 film starring Tom Hanks as a mentally handicapped man.[9] Michael also uses the title from the films Good Morning, Vietnam (at his Nashua lecture by saying "Good morning, Vietna...shua!")[7] The Princess Bride, Gone with the Wind and Jerry Maguire in his lectures.[10] Holly's computer has a screensaver with images of Ed Grimley, the nerdy character with a cowlick played by comedian Martin Short in the comedy shows SCTV and Saturday Night Live.[4]
Angela said she sold Andy's engagement ring on eBay, an online auction website.[10] Creed gives Andy romantic advice and says, "This is how I got Squeaky Fromme", a reference to the Manson family member who tried to assassinate U.S. President Gerald Ford. A picture of President George W. Bush appears on a fake three-dollar bill Creed gives Jim to pay for the party.[2] Creed suggests Kelly watch The Bonnie Hunt Show, a syndicated talk show hosted by actress Bonnie Hunt.[4] Andy puts Splenda, an artificial sweetener, into Stanley's coffee because he has adult onset diabetes, a disorder characterized by high blood glucose.[11] Andy sings Julia a song by Feist, the Canadian singer and songwriter, after he spots a Feist CD in her car.[8] Michael takes a document file from Holly's computer that was created with Microsoft Word, the Microsoft word processing program.[6] Pam said she hates the notion of even Al-Qaeda hating her, a reference to the Islamist terrorist organization that organized the September 11 attacks against New York City.[8] Kelly confesses she went to juvenile detention in Berks County, Pennsylvania,[12] at age 14 for doing something "like Thelma & Louise, but with a boat", a reference to the 1991 road movie starring Geena Davis and Susan Sarandon on the run from their troubled, caged lives.[13] Jim said during a birthday trip to a museum at age seven, his father bought him a plastic toy triceratops, a three-horned dinosaur from the Late Cretaceous Period, which Dwight insists is not a good dinosaur.[10] Pam remembers the name of one audience member by comparing her to k.d. lang, the Canadian singer known for her extremely short hair.[7]
In its original American broadcast on February 5, 2009, the first part of "Lecture Circuit" was seen by 8.4 million viewers, according to Nielsen Media Research.[14] The original broadcast for the second part on February 12 was seen by 8.89 million viewers. The second episode received a 4.3 rating/11 share among viewers aged between 18 and 34, and a 3.8 rating/9 share among viewers aged between 18 and 49, numbers which were close to the season's average rating.[15] The first episode received a 5.0 rating/14 share among viewers aged between 18 and 34, and a 4.3 rating/11 share among viewers aged between 18 and 49. Both ratings were three-tenths of a drop from the previous episode, "Stress Relief", which was heavily viewed because it immediately followed the broadcast of Super Bowl XLIII on NBC. The drop in ratings led some media outlets to speculate that the post-Super Bowl ratings boost was only temporary and would not help The Office in the long run.[14]
Both parts of Lecture Circuit were nearly perfect, and if we were to take them together ... they'd easily constitute the finest hour-long episode in this show's history. [Writer Mindy Kaling] nailed the characterizations, the interactions, the tossed-off one-liners, the weird-yet-realistic scenarios. I wonder how much it helps that she's out on the acting floor every day, getting attuned to her costars' rhythms?
Henning Fog Entertainment Weekly[10]Both episodes of "Lecture Circuit" received generally positive reviews. Whitney Pastorek of Entertainment Weekly described them as "nearly perfect", calling them the two best episodes of the season so far: "[Writer Mindy Kaling] nailed the characterizations, the interactions, the tossed-off one-liners, the weird-yet-realistic scenarios...I wonder how much it helps that she's out on the acting floor every day, getting attuned to her costars' rhythms?"[10] Josh McAuliffe of The Times-Tribune of Scranton, Pennsylvania, said the first "Lecture Circuit" episode was his favorite episode of the fifth season so far, which he said provided several laugh-out-loud moments and a poignancy with Michael's decision to find Holly.[12] McAuliffe described the second episode as a "satisfying wrap-up" and said Michael's outburst during the lecture was "one of the most painful Michael meltdown moments in the show's history".[7] Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger said the first episode perfectly balanced drama and comedy. He particularly complimented the chemistry between both Carell and Fischer and between Krasinski and Wilson, and said he was particularly pleased to receive closure over the Karen character.[2] But Sepinwall said the second episode felt padded with "material I would have been fine seeing as deleted scenes". Although he described Carell's reaction to the news that Holly still has feelings for him as a "wonderful performance", Sepinwall also said the subplot involving Angela's cat was particularly unfunny and that subplot with Jim and Dwight, "so brilliant last week, ran out of steam quickly here."[9]
Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club said the episode "was full of laughs but had a bit of a bittersweet aftertaste" and had "one hell of a cliffhanger" ending. Rabin praised the Jim and Dwight teaming in the first episode, but said the plot line of Michael's lectures were predictable and "promised more than it delivered".[11] Rabin said the second episode "wrapped up everything up nicely [and] delivered larfs aplenty"; he particularly enjoyed the subplot involving Angela's cats, and the fact that it "left the door open for Holly's return".[4] Will Leitch of New York magazine praised the cliffhanger ending of the first episode and said he was pleased the Holly character was still in the show's equation. Leitch also praised Ed Helms, who "is nailing the right combination of ridiculous and sad-sack pathos", although he said he "[was not] nearly as inspired" by the Jim and Dwight subplot.[5] Leitch also enjoyed the second episode, particularly the "legitimately sweet moment" when Pam tells Michael that Holly still has feelings for him. Leitch was less praiseworthy of the Angela subplot involving her cats, and said the character "appears to have officially gone batshit insane."[6] Travis Fickett of IGN criticized the first episode and said, "I'm starting to wonder if the show is showing signs of winding down." Fickett said the idea of Michael giving awkward lecture tours felt old and familiar, so much so that "I was convinced it was a repeat". He also said the Jim and Dwight idea was funny, but "nothing the show hasn't tapped before".[16] Likewise, Fickett described the second episode as "average Office and feels overly familiar without really blazing any new ground." He also said it was disappointing Holly did not appear, and that Angela felt like a "caricature" in her subplot.[17]
The scene with Angela licking her cat was heavily criticized by reviewers,[6][17][18] prompting some observers to describe it as the moment when The Office jumped the shark, a phrase used to describe the moment of downturn for a previously successful television show.[18] When asked about this during an interview, actor Oscar Nuñez responded, "No show is 'Jump the Shark'-proof, but there have been other moments on The Office that I think were more 'Jump the Shark' than that." He did not specify what other moments he meant.[18]



"Prince Family Paper" is the thirteenth episode of the fifth season of the American comedy television series The Office. The show's 85th overall episode, it originally aired on NBC in the United States on January 22, 2009. In the episode, Michael and Dwight go undercover to seek information on a family-owned business competitor, and Michael has a crisis of conscience when they turn out to be very nice people. Meanwhile, the others in the office passionately debate whether actress Hilary Swank can be considered "hot".
The episode was directed by Asaad Kelada and written by B. J. Novak, who also plays Ryan on the show. The script addresses the Darwinistic nature of capitalism in its portrayal of the larger corporation Dunder Mifflin threatening a small mom-and-pop business, as well as societal definitions of beauty in the differing arguments regarding Swank's attractiveness. Dan Bakkedahl makes a guest appearance as the business owner's son.
The episode received generally mixed reviews. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Prince Family Paper" was seen by 8.74 million viewers, a slight increase from the previous week's episode, "The Duel".
Dunder Mifflin CFO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) enlists Michael Scott (Steve Carell) to report on the success of a small family-owned local paper company named Prince Paper, that works in an area where Dunder Mifflin has never acquired clients. Michael brings Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) to help gather information. Michael visits business owner Roger Prince (Dan Desmond) posing as a potential customer named "Michael Scarn", while Dwight pretends to request a job. The kind and overly trusting Roger Prince gives Michael the company's customer list to use as a reference, and Michael and Dwight leave triumphantly.
However, Michael damages his car while exiting his parking space, which catches the attention of the Prince family. They come out to help fix the car as Michael watches. Michael is moved by their kindness and has a change of heart regarding giving the customer list to David, though Dwight remains unmoved. Back at the office, Dwight tries to convince Michael he cannot let his heart get in the way of business. Michael agrees to send the list and his information to Wallace, but then tries to get rid of the list. Dwight chases Michael down and takes the list from him, causing Michael to give in. David calls Michael to congratulate him on getting the list. Michael claims he is feeling a "bittersweet" moment: bitter because he potentially ruined a decent family, but sweet because he satisfied David Wallace.
The rest of the office debates whether Hilary Swank is "hot". Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) leads the group voting she is not hot, claiming she looks like a "monster". Jim convinces Kevin to switch sides by having him imagine Hilary kissing him, only for Kevin to switch back, saying the debate is whether she is hot, not whether he would have sex with her. Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) votes "hot" after getting offended by Kevin's crude remarks. Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling), who believes herself less attractive than Swank, gets emotional when Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) defends his "not hot" vote. Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) argues they should not let the Kevins of the world decide who is hot. Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nuñez) gives a presentation about the structure of Swank's facial features, concluding she is "attractive...but she is not hot." An uncharacteristically uplifting Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) votes hot, pointing out flaws are no way to live life. At the end of the debate, the sides are still tied until Michael, oblivious of their debate, passes by the pictures on the wall and casually calls her hot.
"Prince Family Paper" was directed by Asaad Kelada and written by B. J. Novak, who also plays Ryan Howard on the show. The episode portrays capitalism as Darwinistic in nature, particularly through its portrayal of the larger corporation Dunder Mifflin threatening the small mom-and-pop business Prince Family Paper, as well as societal definitions of beauty in the differing arguments regarding the hotness of Hilary Swank.[2][3]
Dan Bakkedahl, a comedian best known as a correspondent from the Comedy Central comedy program The Daily Show, made a guest appearance as Robert Prince, Jr., the son of the Prince Paper owner.[4] When Michael infiltrates Prince Family Paper, he identifies himself as Michael Scarn. This is a reference to the second season episode "The Client", in which Pam discovers an action film screenplay starring a character based on himself named Agent Michael Scarn.[5]
Robert Prince tells Michael he started his business after Vietnam, a reference to the Vietnam War, but Michael mistakes it for a reference to the country itself and says he has heard it is a nice place.[6] During one scene, Michael said to David Wallace, "What'chu talking 'bout, Wallace?" in the style of Gary Coleman's catchphrase "What'chu talking 'bout, Willis?" from the sitcom Diff'rent Strokes.[5] While discussing Hilary Swank, Kevin said he finds her so unattractive that he expected her to have a real penis in Boys Don't Cry, the 1999 drama film in which Swank played a transgender man.[6] When Angela votes that Hilary Swank is hot, she declares her "a female Boris Becker", a reference to the German professional tennis player. Michael plans to meet Dwight at the IHOP pancake eatery after they visit Prince Family Paper, but Dwight insists IHOP is "socialist" and prefers the American restaurant chain Denny's.[7]
In its original American broadcast on January 22, 2009, "Prince Family Paper" was watched by 8.74 million overall viewers,[8] about a five percent increase in viewership over the previous episode, "The Duel".[9] "Prince Family Paper" received a 5.3 rating/14 share among viewers aged between 18 and 34, and a 4.6 rating/11 share among viewers between 18 and 49. It was outperformed by CSI: Crime Scene Investigation on CBS, which was seen by 17.53 million households, and Grey's Anatomy on ABC, which was seen by 14.25 million households, although commentators said The Office still fared well against the tough competition. "Prince Family Paper" earned higher ratings than the Fox series Bones, which moved to Thursday for the first time and drew 7.5 million viewers.[8]
Tonight was about as inconsequential as The Office gets. With the exception of Michael’s moral quandary as to whether or to take advantage of the naivety of a comically friendly rival paper company it was all about gags, some inspired, some relatively arbitrary.
Nathan Rabin, The A.V. Club[4]"Prince Family Paper" received generally mixed reviews. Travis Fickett of IGN called it one of the show's better Michael-and-Dwight centric episodes, and called the chase between them "a classic scene and perfectly executed".[6] Fickett also praised several character moments, like Kelly's breakdown over whether Hilary Swank is hot, but said the Swank subplot was less interesting than the main story.[6] Brian Howard of The Journal News said he appreciated that the script had Michael follow through on betraying the Princes, rather than deciding to spare them, because he felt it was more realistic. Howard said, "They didn’t let Michael off the hook. Instead the writers took a dark and dirty turn toward the truly tragic, in the literal sense of the word."[5] He also praised the Hilary Swank subplot as funny and a realistic conversation topic among officemates, although he admitted it was "relegated to almost buffer status" to the main plot.[5] Alan Sepinwall, television columnist with The Star-Ledger, said Michael's conflicted feelings about betraying the Prince family came up too late and resolved too abruptly to work well, and that the chase between Michael and Dwight was a poorly constructed "misfire". However, he called the subplot about Hilary Swank "genius with a capital G".[10]
TV Squad writer Jay Black praised the main plot, and wrote, "I was delighted that the trip to the Prince Family Paper Company became a test of Michael's morals rather than the usual exercise in his stupidity."[3] Black said Dwight's attempts to get Michael to give up the client list were among the best set of scenes for the season. However, Black said the Hilary Swank subplot suffered in comparison, and felt like a vain attempt to find something for the supporting cast to do.[3] The A.V. Club writer Nathan Rabin was disappointed with "Prince Family Paper", calling it overly dependent on throwaway gags and describing it as "about as inconsequential as The Office gets".[4] Rabin complimented the opening gag with Jim and Dwight, but said it "felt like the kind of gag the show has pulled off dozens, if not hundreds of times, before".[4] Alynda Wheat of Entertainment Weekly said it was not one of the strongest Office episodes and that the script took a particularly mean tone with the Prince Family Paper subplot, but that it also included some enjoyable moments like Jim's prank against Dwight in the opening scene.[7] Will Leitch of New York magazine was very critical of the episode, especially the Hilary Swank subplot (which he said "sounded like a conversation B. J. Novak had with himself at a party and submitted as a backup script") and the fact that the episode had nothing to do with the show's ongoing plotlines.[11]
Hilary Swank said of the episode in an interview with Time magazine, "I'm not a big television watcher, but definitely everyone made me aware of it. It's flattering anytime someone mentions you. But I don't think of myself in terms of that."[12][13] She elaborated later in the interview, "There is so much [emphasis] put on the way we look, which is interesting, going back to the Office question. Are you hot, or are you not? It really does a disservice. There's so much more to life than looking a certain way."[12]



"The Carpet" is the fourteenth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's twentieth episode overall. It was written by Paul Lieberstein and directed by Victor Nelli, Jr. The episode first aired on January 26, 2006 on NBC. The episode guest stars Ken Howard as Ed Truck, and David Koechner as Todd Packer.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, a disgusting "thing" – implied to be human feces – is left in Michael Scott's (Steve Carell) office, and Michael tries to discover who did it. While his carpet is being replaced, he uses Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) desk, forcing Jim to move away from Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) into the annex.
"The Carpet" is the first and only episode to feature Howard as Truck. However, the death of the character would serve as the main plot for the third season episode "Grief Counseling". The episode received largely positive reviews from television critics. Upon its original broadcast, "The Carpet" earned a Nielsen rating of 4.6 in the 18–49 demographic, being viewed by 8.6 million viewers. At the time of its release, it was the second most-downloaded episode of a television show on the iTunes store.
When someone leaves a disgusting substance on the carpet in Michael Scott's (Steve Carell) office, he spends the day at Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) desk, relegating Jim to the back room (referred to as the "Annex") to suffer Kelly Kapoor's (Mindy Kaling) constant chattering. She asks Jim to hook her up with Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak). Jim continues to yearn for Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), but her groom-to-be, Roy Anderson (David Denman), is in the office replacing the carpet along with Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), and Jim is unable to speak with her.
Michael becomes increasingly incensed at what happened to his office. Believing it to have been perpetrated by someone in the office, he begins to lose his faith in his employees. Michael tries talking to his former boss Ed Truck (Ken Howard), who tells him that he does not need to have his employees be his friends. But Michael's mood changes drastically when he finds out the prank was carried out by his obnoxious friend Todd Packer (David Koechner). Michael instantly finds the joke hilarious, and his faith in his friends is restored. At the end of the day, Jim is cheered up when he finds that all seven of his voicemail messages were left by Pam throughout the day. Jim is seen driving home, and Pam's voicemails act as a voice-over, closing out the episode.
"The Carpet" was written by Paul Lieberstein, who portrays Toby Flenderson on the series, making it his third writing credit after the first season entry "Health Care" and the second-season episode "The Client".[2][3] The episode was directed by Victor Nelli, Jr.[4] The episode is the first and only to feature Howard as Ed Truck. However, the death of the character would serve as the main plot for the third season episode "Grief Counseling".[5] Actress Kate Flannery later revealed that, for the old 1980s picture of Michael and Ed, Carell had to wear a mullet wig.[5]
Before the episode aired, the cast and crew received news that the show would be renewed for a third season. Jenna Fischer (Pam) noted that "It is rare in this business to hear news of a pickup so early", but that NBC was very pleased with how well the show was doing.[6] It had previously, and erroneously, been advertised that the show would finish its run at the end of March 2006. Fischer explained that while the season would end – actually in May – the show would continue.[6]
The exact nature of the substance that is deposited on Michael's carpet is never made clear. Fischer only described it as "soft [...] smelly [and] brown".[6] In fact, the circumstance in which the substance is viewed by the camera is still ambiguous; Television Without Pity reviewer M. Giant noted that the viewer only gets "the merest out-of-focus Blair Witch glimpse" of the substance.[7] Fischer also noted that one of the more interesting aspects of the episode was the "you [the audience] finally see Pam and Roy getting along".[6] She explained that this was because Roy and Pam returned from "a romantic vacation in the Poconos".[6]
Deleted scenes include: Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) believing that a higher power brought Michael to his desk, Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) speculating on the culprit, Jim unable to handle Kelly's chattering, Jim eating lunch by himself in his car, Michael being unable to complete a sale, Michael stealing a crumpet from Dwight, Dwight and Angela having a secret conversation in the kitchen, and Jim asking Toby Flenderson (Lieberstein) how he handled Kelly's loquaciousness.[8]
Michael compares that the circumstances of the episode to the components for an audition tape for Fear Factor, an American sports dare reality game show. Michael later bothers Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) with an impression of the Popeye cartoon character J. Wellington Wimpy. Dwight makes repeated calls to WEZX Rock 107, a Scranton radio station that plays classic rock. Michael snidely compares Darryl and Roy's work to Extreme Makeover: Home Edition, an American reality television series providing home improvements for less fortunate families and community schools.[7]
"The Carpet" originally aired on NBC on January 26, 2006.[9] The episode received a 4.6 rating/11 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[10] This means that it was seen by 4.6 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[10] "The Carpet" was viewed by 8.6 million viewers.[10] The episode retained 93 percent of its lead-in My Name is Earl audience.[11]
Critical reception to the episode was largely positive. M. Giant of Television Without Pity awarded the episode an "A−".[7] Brendan Babish of DVD Verdict gave the episode a largely positive review and awarded it an "A−". He called it "another solid episode" and praised the "guest appearance by Ken Howard of The White Shadow fame".[12] After the episode aired, several newspapers, including the Los Angeles Times and The Journal Gazette reported on the episode's success, as well as others in the season, in building the show's audience.[11][13] Furthermore, the episode was particularly popular with fans of the series, especially college students. After the episode aired, it was made available on the iTunes online digital store, where, for a time, it was the second most-downloaded episode of a television show.[13]


"Costume Contest" is the sixth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 132nd episode overall. Written by Justin Spitzer and directed by Dean Holland, the episode aired on NBC in the United States on October 28, 2010. This episode received positive reviews.
In the episode, Michael freaks out when Darryl goes over his head by taking an idea to corporate. The employees partake in a Halloween costume contest in the office. Meanwhile, Pam tries to get the truth from Danny about their dating history.
The office is excited over the annual Halloween costume contest, the winner receives a Scranton-area coupon book. Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez), frustrated that no one else seems to realize what a meager prize a coupon book really is (as it is worth over $15,000 in savings, however the rest of the office thinks that is the actual worth), changes out of his costume and snarkily states that he is dressed up as "a rational consumer". The significance of this gesture goes over the other workers' heads, and Oscar becomes increasingly embarrassed at being virtually the only person not in costume. Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) persistently begs Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) to wear a matching couples costume of Popeye and Olive Oyl with her, but he refuses as he feels he is too old for costumes. As the day goes on, several people realize their costume might not win, so they leave the office to switch into something more recognizable or provocative.
Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) informs the staff that delivery drivers can now suggest additional products for the customers they deliver to, increasing sales for the company. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) realizes this idea is similar to a suggestion made by Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), which he had shot down. He now realizes this was a mistake and apologizes to Darryl, and Darryl says he holds no grudge against him. However, Michael feels increasingly uncomfortable at Darryl not receiving credit for his idea, and announces to the entire office that he is going to confront corporate about stealing Darryl's idea. Gabe tells Michael that Darryl actually pitched the idea to him, and has already received credit.
New salesman Danny Cordray (Timothy Olyphant) invites everyone to a Halloween party at his bar after work. Almost everyone in the office is aware that Danny and Pam had a two-date fling four years ago. Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) tell Danny that they are not going to his party because Pam does not want them to, which incites Danny to confront Jim and Pam. They reassure him that Pam does not care if people go to his party, and the three laugh about how their coworkers have been exaggerating the significance of his two dates with Pam; however, it also becomes clear that Pam wants to know exactly why she was rejected. When Jim confronts him, Danny says he never called back because Pam talked about Jim during their dates. Pam reveals she never mentioned Jim, and so Danny reluctantly admits that he found her too "dorky." Though Jim is offended, Pam is satisfied at having a reason, and leaves the situation at that. Jim realizes he loves Pam for being so dorky, and comes into the office wearing his Popeye costume and carrying Cece (dressed as Swee'Pea), much to the delight of Pam.
Michael is angered that Darryl went over his head, and tries to get Darryl to apologize in front of everyone for 'backstabbing' him. Darryl refuses, criticizing Michael's poor judgment of his idea. Michael changes his costume to Darryl's warehouse uniform, and mocks him. The two bring their argument to Gabe, where Darryl expresses his opinion that Michael has never done anything for him. After some negotiating by Gabe, Darryl and Michael apologize to each other. Darryl wishes he were still operating down in the warehouse, but Andy inspires Darryl to further his career at Dunder Mifflin. They both agree to complain to CEO Jo Bennet if Gabe ever rejects either of their ideas.
Oscar is declared the winner of the costume contest. A series of interviews reveal several employees' reasons for voting for Oscar – Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) voted on who she thought was least likely to win, Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) for the underdog, and Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) because he thought Oscar was wearing an excellent Edward James Olmos costume.
"Costume Contest" was directed by Dean Holland, an editor on the series, and written by Justin Spitzer. Holland also directed the fifth-season episode, "The Duel". It was the second episode to feature Timothy Olyphant, who was billed as a special guest star, in a guest appearance as Danny Cordray. David Koechner appears as Todd Packer, last seen in the sixth-season episode, "St. Patrick's Day". With the seventh season of The Office being Carell's last, the writers decided to divide the season into two distinct halves; the first half would "celebrate Carell's finale year and highlight different actors on the show", whereas the second half would focus on his departure and the search for a new manager. As such, "Costume Contest" was one of the first episodes of the season to specifically highlight other characters, in this case Robinson's character, Darryl.[1]
Within the week of the original air date, Hulu released four deleted scenes from the episode. In the first 87-second clip, Dwight and Michael try to destroy Darryl's idea by having a fake fight which eventually fails.[2] In the second 79-second clip, Dwight kisses up to Darryl in case he is promoted.[3] In the fourth 50-second clip, Toby and Kelly explain why they want the coupon book while Oscar looks for something good in the book.[4]
In its original American broadcast on October 28, 2010, "Costume Contest" was viewed by an estimated 8.07 million viewers and received a 4.0 rating/11% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode's rating improved 15% from the previous episode.[5][6] In Canada, the episode was watched by 826,000 viewers.[7]
The episode received positive reviews from critics. James Poniewozik of Time said, "It started excellently with "What can Stanley ignore" precredit sequence and it rolled on from there." He also said that this episode contained a number of nice character moments.[8] Joel Keller of AOL's TV Squad called the episode a "slow-building but ultimately winning episode".[9] Margaret Lyons of Entertainment Weekly called the episode "the funniest episode of The Office since season 5".[10]


"Pam's Replacement" is the seventh episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 159th episode overall. The episode aired on NBC in the United States on November 10, 2011. It was written by Allison Silverman and was directed by Matt Sohn. The episode guest stars Lindsey Broad as Cathy Simms, who played a recurring role throughout the eighth season.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) trains an attractive temporary worker (Lindsey Broad) to take her place while she is on maternity leave, and enlists Dwight Schrute's (Rainn Wilson) support when she tries to show that Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) finds her replacement attractive. Meanwhile, Robert California (James Spader) surprises Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), and Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) when he requests to join their band.
"Pam's Replacement" relates to Pam's pregnancy; Fischer was actually pregnant and her pregnancy was written into the series with Pam and Jim having their second baby. The episode received mixed reviews from critics. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode received 5.96 million viewers and received a 3.0 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49 marking a slight drop in the ratings from the previous episode, "Doomsday".
Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) trains a temporary worker Cathy Simms (Lindsey Broad) so that she can take her place when she goes on maternity leave. In the break room, the other workers discuss how attractive Cathy is and how excited they are to have her in the office. Pam, being well into her pregnancy, is sensitive about her looks and so becomes offended by their discussion, albeit lightly and making a joke out of it. Most of them respond by assuring Pam that she is, if anything, more sexually attractive than before she was pregnant. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), however, argues that sexual attractiveness is a mostly objective quality and pregnant women cannot be sexually attractive, and accuses the others of lying to spare Pam's feelings. Troubled by Dwight's comments, Pam asks her husband Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) if he finds the new temp attractive. Not wanting to upset his wife, Jim tells her that he does not find her replacement attractive, even objectively. Though Jim gives no sign of unease, Pam is convinced that he is lying to her, and enlists the help of the harshly honest Dwight to prove it.
After a number of unsuccessful attempts to trick Jim into revealing he finds Pam's replacement attractive, some of which involve a psychological "matchmaking test" (seeing who Jim would set Cathy up with) recommended by Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling), and Dwight grabbing Jim's crotch, Dwight and Pam convince Jim to submit to a lie detection test in the form of a retail store's blood pressure tester. At the conclusion of the interview, Dwight triumphantly announces that he recorded hypertension when Jim said he does not find the new temp attractive, but as Jim continues to insist he is telling the truth Dwight admits that he recorded equal hypertension on every question, including Jim's name. Pam realizes that Jim has unusually high blood pressure, which his father also suffers from, and forgets about the issue in order to focus on her husband's health.
CEO Robert California (James Spader) surprises Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), and Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) when he asks to join their band after he finds them having a jam session in the warehouse. Soon thereafter, California's friends, skilled local musicians themselves, arrive to join in. Not having brought their own instruments, two of them take over Kevin's drums and Darryl's synthesizer, while Andy's acoustic guitar is drowned out by the newcomer's electric guitar. The three of them are thus relegated to playing percussion. Andy, Kevin and Darryl realize that they were ousted, thanks to warehouse worker Val, and after a failed attempt to try getting their original band roles back, they instead satisfyingly play "Baby, I Love Your Way" by Peter Frampton outside.
The episode was written by consulting producer Allison Silverman, her first writing credit for the series after joining the writing staff in the eighth season.[1] It was directed by Matt Sohn, one of the series' cinematographers and camera operators, his third directing credit for the series. The episode features a guest appearance from Lindsey Broad, and her character was described as "Pam’s competent and likable pal," Cathy.[2] She appeared in a recurring role in the eighth season.[2] The episode also relates to Pam's pregnancy.[3] Jenna Fischer was actually pregnant and her pregnancy was written into the series with Pam and Jim having their second baby.[3] The man who played Robert's skilled drummer friend is Steve Moore, better known as "The Mad Drummer" for the viral video he featured in, "This drummer is at the wrong gig".[4][5]
In its original American broadcast, "Pam's Replacement" was viewed by an estimated 5.96 million viewers and received a 3.0 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[6] This means that it was seen by 3.0% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a two-tenths decrease in the ratings from the previous episode, "Doomsday".[6] Despite this, however, the episode ranked second in its timeslot, beating Bones which received a 2.7 rating/7% share in the 18–49 demographic and Person of Interest which received a 2.0 rating/2% share, although both the latter two shows had more viewers. "Pam's Replacement" was defeated by Grey's Anatomy which received a 4.0 rating/10% share.[6] Added with DVR viewers, who viewed the episode within seven days of the original broadcast, the episode received a 4.4 rating in the 18–49 demographic, adding a 1.4 rating to the original viewership.[7] A repeat of the episode on January 5, 2012 drew 1.85 million and received a 0.7 rating/2% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking third and last in its time slot.[8][9]
"Pam's Replacement" received generally mixed reviews from critics. HitFix writer Alan Sepinwall complimented the episode for staying true to the characters compared to the rest of the season, which he had criticized in an earlier review. He called the episode a "significant step up" albeit just "decent" in absolute terms.[10] The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt criticized the Andy–Kevin–Darryl subplot for its lack of continuity or any sort of punchlines. He was also critical of the Pam–Dwight plot for not staying true to the characters, and suggested that the writers needed to write the show as less of "a bland copy of itself". He called it one of the laziest half-hours of the show and gave it a C−.[11] Cindy White of IGN said that the episode needed a stronger A-plot writing that the plots "felt like a meal made up of two tasty side dishes". She gave it a 7 out of 10.[12] Hanna Lawrence of Hollywood.com praised the episode for being believable and for showing things that happen in real life. She also praised the Jim–Pam plot for showcasing the couple as not completely "perfect". She called the band subplot "weak".[13]



"The Lover" is the seventh episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 107th episode overall. It was written by Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky and directed by Eisenberg. It originally aired on October 22, 2009 on NBC.
In this episode, Jim and Pam return from their honeymoon and discover that Michael is dating Pam's mother, which infuriates her. Meanwhile, Dwight tries to install a recording device in Jim's office, by giving him a wooden mallard as an apology for their long rivalry.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) return from their honeymoon in Puerto Rico and Michael Scott (Steve Carell) tells Jim that he has been dating Pam's mother, Helene (Linda Purl), after spending the night with her at their wedding in Niagara. Jim is shocked and tells Michael not to mention anything to Pam (which he reluctantly agrees to do) and to break it off with Helene immediately (which he does not agree to). However, when Jim and Pam give Michael a gift from Puerto Rico, Michael asks if Pam thinks he should date who he wants. He then lets it slip he is dating Helene, and Pam storms out of the office and into the parking lot, screaming all the way down. She calls her mother and angrily asks her why she started dating him after continuously complaining to her mother about Michael's behavior over the past several years.
During a conference room meeting, Pam maintains a hostile attitude toward Michael and openly defies him in response to the news. Michael then gets a call from Helene, who wants him to tell Pam to calm down. Pam then announces that he has been dating Helene to the rest of the office. Everyone is initially disgusted by this, but Michael appeals to them with his human need for companionship, and they agree that Pam is overreacting. In response, Pam becomes hostile towards the rest of the office. Michael complains to Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) about Pam's behavior, but when Toby tries to coax Pam into discussing the issue, she becomes angry with Toby as well. Pam brings Michael into the kitchen and orders him to stop dating Helene, and Michael responds by saying he will "start dating her even harder." At the end of the day, Michael feels bad and says goodnight to Pam, without response.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) apologizes to Jim for their feuds, and offers him a token of his desire for peace with a wooden mallard, actually a concealed recording device which he means to use to gather damaging information about Jim. Jim quickly finds the device and starts using it to prank Dwight. He brings Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) into his office and plays "M'Appari" from the opera Martha loudly while he talks to Andy so Dwight will not hear their conversation, while using gestures to make it clear that they are discussing Dwight. He then gives the mallard to Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) and Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) in the annex, meaning Dwight can hear the couple's bickering, and is forced to pay $10 to get it back. Jim finally summons Dwight to his office and tells him he knew about the recording device all along. Dwight admits to being jealous of Jim's promotion. Jim tells Dwight to wash his car as punishment, which Dwight agrees is fair. Jim then brings Pam into the conference room and cheers her up by saying Dwight is washing their car out of sympathy for what she has been through and recounting stories from their honeymoon.
At the end of the episode, Dwight reveals that that recording device underneath the mallard was a decoy, and his primary recording device was installed on the tip of a pen that he claimed Jim left on his desk earlier, along with the mallard. Dwight explains he would never put his primary listening device in such an obvious place, as he is "not insane."
This episode was watched by 8.5 million viewers, with a 4.2 rating and an 11 share in the 18–49 demographic.[1]


"Beach Games" is the twenty-third episode of the third season of the American version of The Office and the 51st of the series. In this episode, the office goes to a nearby lake for some "beach games". It is revealed that Michael (Steve Carell) is being interviewed for a position at corporate and that the winner of the beach games will become regional manager. Meanwhile, Dwight (Rainn Wilson) and Angela (Angela Kinsey) sabotage Andy (Ed Helms), and Pam (Jenna Fischer) spends her day taking notes of the office workers' activities.
The episode was written by Jennifer Celotta and Greg Daniels and directed by Harold Ramis. Filming took place at a fake beach near Hansen Dam, as it was "the bleakest lake [they could] find." The crew had to deal with hot temperatures during the day and "frigid" weather at night. One of Helms' scenes involved him being trapped on a lake in a sumo wrestling outfit, forcing him to wear a harness and be pulled by a boat manned by a crew member. For the fire walk, orange and yellow gels and lava rocks were used, and gas lines were installed to produce flames.
An estimated 7.2 million viewers watched "Beach Games" on its first American broadcast on May 10, 2007, resulting in the episode placing fourth for the night in its timeslot. It received mainly positive reviews from television critics, and many cited the sumo suit scenes and the coal walk scene as particular highlights. Most critics praised Pam's speech at the end of the episode.
When  Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is invited by CFO David Wallace
to interview for a position at Dunder-Mifflin corporate headquarters in New York City, he assumes he will get the job. So he decides to hold a Survivor-like competition at Lake Scranton to determine his successor. The entire office travels to the lake by bus, except for Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein), whom Michael will not allow to attend, much to Toby's disappointment because he anticipated getting to see Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) wearing her bikini.
Michael selects the "tribe" captains – Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) and Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) – and instructs Pam to take detailed notes on the events of the day, which include games such as egg and spoon races and hot dog eating contests. Initially unaware of the purpose of the exercise, the employees do not all take it seriously. However, when Michael reveals he is interviewing for the job in New York, Andy and Dwight step up their efforts and Stanley tries to be enthusiastic but quickly gives up. David Wallace also asks Jim and Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) to interview for the same position that Michael is pursuing.
To support her secret lover Dwight, Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) sabotages Andy, leaving him adrift in the lake in an inflatable sumo wrestling costume. Michael's final event is a walk across hot coals. Initially, only Pam volunteers, but Michael refuses to let her walk across because she is not being considered to replace him. However, Michael cannot even bring himself to do it. Dwight throws himself on the coals, refusing to leave until he is given the job, and he writhes in agony until he is dragged off.
As a last-ditch effort to salvage the day, Michael assembles a "Tribal Council" stand-up comedy competition. Jim declines to participate, and reveals that he has applied for the position in New York. While they are doing this, Pam wanders off and runs barefoot across the hot coals. Feeling a new sense of confidence because of the experience, she interrupts the Tribal Council to berate her colleagues for treating her poorly, citing the fact that almost no one attended her art show. She rounds on Jim, and tells him that she called off her wedding because of him, that it is "fine" that he is with someone else now, but that she misses the fun that they had as best friends before he transferred. As she runs to cool her feet in the water, the cameraman turns to Jim who is now in a blank stare, shaken by the confession.
"Beach Games" was written by co-executive producer Jennifer Celotta and series creator Greg Daniels, and was directed by Harold Ramis,[2] whose credits include the episodes "A Benihana Christmas" and "Safety Training".[3] Celotta and Daniels came up with the idea for the opening scene while researching medical symptoms at WebMD; they began considering ideas for the episode's cold open, and decided to write on what "we're doing right now," resulting in Michael researching symptoms. Michael's later conversation with David Wallace set an important foundation for both the season and the series, as it established that several people would be competing for a corporate job and solidified the CFO as an important character. The actor who plays Wallace, guest star Andy Buckley, was then working at Merrill Lynch as a stockbroker.[2]
Originally the crew sought to film at a lake that resembled Lake Scranton. However, upon arriving at one in the area they found that it was too beautiful, as they had wanted a lake that was the equivalent of the dour office: "the bleakest lake [they could] find."[2]  Eventually, much of the episode was filmed at a fake beach at the reservoir of Hansen Dam,[4] where it was "a thousand degrees during the day and minus 40 at night," Celotta remarked in the DVD audio commentary.[2] "We had tents pumping air conditioning that didn't work all day long," according to one crew member. And at night, the production crew set up heaters everywhere because the weather became "frigid".[2]
Actress Kate Flannery later said that the days of filming were extremely "hot", and she became sick of hot dogs after eating many of them in the contest seen in the episode.[4] Many cast members spit out the hot dogs after putting them in their mouths, an act that sometimes activated Ed Helms' gag reflex. The cast members found the sumo suits uncomfortable, both due to the hot weather and the inability to sit down.[2] Actress Angela Kinsey previewed before the episode broadcast that she would "forever look at John Krasinski differently, because he looked so hilarious to me" wearing his sumo suit.[5] For the scenes of Helms floating in the lake in his sumo suit, the actor wore a harness and a fishing line that snaked out through his sleeve, the purpose being to drag him farther out on the lake. A crew member pulled him in a row boat; the crew would film a take of the scene, and then would have to wait fifteen minutes to do it again.[2]
To create a safe enough fire pit to allow the actors to walk on it, the crew used a "light box buried in the ground with orange and yellow gels on it, with lava rocks on top," according to Ramis.[2] Gas lines were also buried in the sand to supply a steady stream of flames. Many of the scenes and lines of dialogue were improvised, such as Andy throwing a rock at a duck and Jim guiding an unsuspecting Karen into the water. For Pam's speech, Daniels and Celotta knew it was important, and discussed with Ramis for about 45 minutes about how best to shoot it. Many different takes were shot, and Celotta thought Fischer "was so amazing, take after take after take."[2] Ramis believed the past 28 episodes had contained a slow build-up to this scene. Daniels wrote most of the speech, though Celotta did contribute some parts.[2]
The third season DVD contains a number of deleted scenes. Notable cut scenes included Jim receiving a call informing him of the job opening, Michael annoying Pam when she's preparing the hot dogs by telling her to grill faster, Dwight sumo wrestling with Stanley, Ryan asking to participate in the fire walk, and Andy failing to flag down a passing car.[6]
On the bus, the cast sing songs such as the Kenny Rogers song "The Gambler" and the Flintstones theme song. Ramis encouraged them to sing, as he had never ridden on a bus where people did not sing.[2] Also in the episode, Michael wears Sandals gear and a beaded necklace, a reference to his Jamaican vacation in "Back from Vacation".[2][7] According to Helms and the episode's writers, the plot references the reality television series Survivor and The Bachelor, and The Apprentice. Before their work on The Office, the camera men used in this episode shot Survivor for four years.[2] Several media outlets noted similarities between Michael and Jeff Probst, the host of Survivor.[7][8]
The episode first aired in the U.S. on May 10, 2007, attracting 7.2 million viewers and a 3.9/11 ratings share among adults aged 18 to 49.[9] It ranked fourth in its timeslot behind episodes of Survivor: Fiji, Ugly Betty, and Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader?.[10] It was a special 28-minute "supersized" episode.[11]
Entertainment Weekly columnist Abby West considered Pam's speech to be "a terrific payoff for those of us invested (some might say too much) in the Jim-Pam-Karen love triangle."[7] West also praised other aspects of the episode, such as the fire walk and the sequences with Stanley; to her, "everyone brought his or her A game (in hilarity, if not in effort) to the race to succeed Michael."[7] IGN's Travis Fickett rated "Beach Games" 8.5/10, an indication of a "great" episode. Like West, he highlighted Stanley for praise, and also liked Helms being trapped on the lake. Fickett concluded that "while this episode's closing scene doesn't have the impact of Jim telling Pam he was in love with her at the end of Season 2, it is one of those long awaited moments that we knew was coming. And Jenna Fischer, as Pam, handles it perfectly. Once again the Scranton branch is facing some big changes, and the show has us eagerly awaiting the season finale."[8]
Give Me My Remote writer Kath Skerry liked the cast's scenes with the sumo suits, but saved most of her praise for Pam's speech. She declared that it "was AMAZING. Jenna Fischer blew me away with that speech. It's what I have been hoping for since the first episode of this season. It didn't end with Jim swooping in and kissing Pam but there's still one episode left in the season. So that's what we have to ponder over the next week."[12] Jay Black of AOLTV also enjoyed the episode. He wrote, "I thought that it was a bit more low key than some of the previous episodes (hilarious sumo outfits not withstanding) and that suited me just fine. I thought that Michael's ridiculousness, always a difficult balancing act, was reigned-in to just this side of believable where it belongs. I thought that it was filled with a great assortment of gags, both character-based and farcical."[13] However, Black was critical of Pam's speech because it felt both "forced" and out of character for Pam to publicly state her feelings.[13]

"Work Bus" is the fourth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 180th episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC on October 18, 2012. The episode was written by Brent Forrester and was directed by Bryan Cranston.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Jim (John Krasinski) convinces Dwight (Rainn Wilson) that the building is unsafe, leading to Dwight renting a bus and setting up the office inside. Meanwhile, Nellie (Catherine Tate) asks for Andy's (Ed Helms) help in adopting a baby. Jim tries to make Pam (Jenna Fischer) happy with some pie.
"Work Bus" received mostly positive reviews from television critics. Many praised the episode's humor and the dynamic between Jim and Pam, and Jim and Dwight. Despite this, Andy's characterization throughout the episode was mainly criticized. "Work Bus" was viewed by 4.28 million viewers and received a 2.1/6 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking third in its timeslot. The Office also ranked as the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) is irritated that Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) will not fulfill his landlord responsibilities and fix the dangerously substandard office wiring, as Dwight does not want to pay for the expensive rewiring or give everyone a week off for this purpose. Jim comes up with a plan to pretend that the building’s magnetic power is affecting Dwight’s fertility, in order to get the repairs as well as a week off from work for his wife Pam (Jenna Fischer) (whom he is trying to be extra nice to in order to show gratitude for her supporting him for his new job plans). The fertility prank is executed when Jim pops a few kernels in a popcorn bag and places it under one of the exposed areas, to make it look like the magnetic power popped it. Dwight promptly shuts down the office, but to the disappointment of Jim, rents a tightly-spaced bus for the staff to work on. At one point, they pick up a hitchhiker, which turns out to be Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton), who was playing hooky.
Jim harnesses the office workers' love of a local pie stand to please Pam. Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) shows a hidden talent for math now that pie is involved, able to calculate the time it would take to drive to the stand before it closes. Annoyed by the pressure, Dwight eventually gets angry and climbs onto the roof of the bus, refusing to drive any further. Pam suspects something else is wrong and asks Jim to talk to him. Jim learns that Dwight thought his magnetic power prank was real as he suspects he is infertile, which he believes explains why he was not the father of Angela Martin's (Angela Kinsey) baby. Jim assures Dwight that that was a prank, and that he is like a father to the entire office. Enlightened, Dwight drives everyone to the pie stand where they have a great finish to their day.
Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) asks for Andy Bernard's (Ed Helms) help in adopting a baby, as the local adoption agency requires a reference letter from an employer. Andy promises to read her application letter, but tells the camera crew he will only sign it if she admits that she is a horrible person in it. However, Andy is unaware that Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) is using her own painful past as a non-adopted orphan to help Nellie with the process. When Andy coldly rejects Nellie's letter (which Erin helped her write), Nellie accepts his decision, but Andy is stunned to hear Erin crying sadly over the failure. He finally adds some mildly snarky but complimentary lines to her letter and signs onto it as a reference, leaving Nellie overjoyed.
"Work Bus" was written by executive producer Brent Forrester, marking his tenth writing credit for the series, his first since the seventh-season episode "The Search".[2][3] Forrester had previously been named executive producer of the series before the start of the season.[4] The episode was also directed by Bryan Cranston, the star of the AMC drama series Breaking Bad.[5] It was initially announced he was going to guest-direct an episode by cast member Rainn Wilson via Twitter.[5] Cranston had previously directed episodes from other comedy series, including Malcolm in the Middle and Modern Family.[5] Entertainment Weekly later confirmed the episode title and its airdate.[5] During filming, the cast and crew of the series began to refer to the episode as "Death Bus" due to an on-set incident: At one point, the exhaust from a running vehicle was inadvertently positioned in front of the bus's air intake, which caused the interior to fill with lethal carbon monoxide gas.[6]
The official website of The Office included three cut scenes from "Work Bus" within a week of the episode's release. In the 43-second clip, Pete and Erin indulge in a little unlawful fantasy.[7] In the second 104-second clip, the office continues their "Shabooya Roll Call", with Phylis, Oscar, Dwight (reluctantly) and Andy participating, while Angela criticizes their game.[8] In the final 67-second clip, Clark helps Darryl out with PowerPoint.[9]
The cold opening for the episode features Andy showing the office various sports bloopers that he edited to make look funnier than they actually are, a reference to the popular "Fail" internet memes.[10][11] Dwight notes that he is fine living in an EMF field, because most of his super-hero idols got their powers from massive amounts of electricity. Andy, by Nellie's own admission, thinks that she should "go back to Loch Ness", a reference to the mythical Loch Ness monster.[11]
"Work Bus" originally aired on NBC on October 18, 2012.[1] The episode was viewed by 4.28 million viewers and received a 2.1 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[12] This means that it was seen by 2.1 percent of all 18 to 49-year-olds, and 6 percent of all 18 to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marks a slight decrease in the ratings when compared to the previous episode, "Andy's Ancestry".[12][13] The Office finished third in its time slot, being beaten by an episode of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.4/9 percent rating and an entry of the CBS drama Person of Interest, which received a 2.8/7 percent rating[12] Despite this, The Office was the highest-rated NBC television program of the night.[12]
"The first few scenes set on the bus pin their jokes on visual gags and slapstick, which is met with varying degrees of success. But, once pie comes into the equation, it's like Forrester and his fellow writers hit upon a magical key that unlocks the height of funniness within The Office's ensemble. This upward incline in quality is further proof that character needs to drive the show's bus—The Office may be a situation comedy, but its situations don't sing if they're out of sync with Dwight, Jim, and their co-workers."
—Erik Adams, The A.V. Club[10]"Work Bus" received mostly positive reviews. The A.V. Club reviewer Erik Adams considered "Work Bus" to be the funniest episode of the series since the seventh season. He noted that while the episode had a slow start, the writers used the pie concept and ensemble cast to reach a "height of funniness", and compared the "mob mentality" of the cast to The Simpsons. He rated the episode a B+.[10] IGN writer Cindy White called the episode a "pretty good example of how to do an out-of-the-office episode right", considering it to be superior to other out-of-office episodes, including "Christening" and "Gettysburg". She also complimented the characterization of Jim, Pam and Dwight, and their relationships with each other, but criticized the characterization of Andy as well as the cold open, for making Andy too similar to Michael, and later on commented that his new "douche-baggery" spoiled the episode for her. She gave the episode a 7.8/10, concluding that it was a "good" episode.[14] Michael Tedder of New York gave a positive review and praised the scene featuring Jim and Dwight on the roof of the bus, saying their dynamic had matured over the years. Tedder also complimented Cranston's direction in the episode, commenting that the "cramped quality of 'Work Bus' was well matched with Cranston's talents". He also wrote that the Nellie-Andy subplot had some potential to become "promising" if their rivalry continues through the rest of the season, but "we'll have to see".[15]
Brett Harrison Davinger of California Literary Review was more positive, writing that the episode had a more "classic Office" feeling, due to its humor and emotion, which he considered missing from the series in the previous seasons. He praised Jim for being "the show's heart" for being motivated from "a real place" and complimented his final scenes with Dwight, for actually being more in-character in his motivation unlike previous episodes, such as "The Incentive" and "Last Day in Florida". He also praised Jim and Pam's final scene together for having "genuine, quiet tenderness" to it. He also complimented the episode's humor and for Andy's "dick" behavior.[16]
Alan Sepinwall of HitFix had a more mixed review, calling the episode decent by late-era The Office standards. While he criticized Andy's behavior for being too much like Michael Scott, and Kevin for being "developmentally disabled", he complimented the episode for having "some decent laughs" and for the Jim-Dwight-Pam storyline. He especially praised Jim and Dwight's scene on the roof of the bus, comparing it to previous scenes in the series between Jim and Michael or Pam and Michael, saying it was able to show the "core of real emotion underneath the cartoon character [Dwight]".[17] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode three stars out of five, saying that without Brian Baumgartner's performance, the episode "might not have been worth watching". He only had praise for Baumgartner's performance in his character's gags throughout the episode.[18]



Vera Mindy Chokalingam[1] (born June 24, 1979),[1][2] known professionally as Mindy Kaling (/ˈkeɪlɪŋ/), is an American actress, screenwriter, and producer.[3] Known for her extensive work on television, she has received numerous accolades including two Screen Actors Guild Awards and the Tony Award, and six Primetime Emmy Awards nominations. She was recognized by Time magazine as one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2013 and was awarded the National Medal of the Arts from President Joe Biden in 2022.[4][5]
She first gained recognition starring as Kelly Kapoor in the NBC sitcom The Office (2005–2013), for which she also served as a writer, executive producer, and director.[6] For her work on the series, she was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series. She gained wider attention for creating, producing and starring as Dr. Mindy Lahiri in the Fox comedy series The Mindy Project (2012–2017). She then expanded her career creating numerous shows such as the NBC sitcom Champions (2018), the Hulu miniseries Four Weddings and a Funeral (2019), the Netflix comedy series Never Have I Ever (2020–2023) and the HBO Max comedy series The Sex Lives of College Girls (2021–present).[7]
Her film career includes voice roles in Despicable Me (2010), Wreck-It Ralph (2012), and Inside Out (2015) as well as live action roles in No Strings Attached (2011), The Five-Year Engagement (2012), A Wrinkle in Time and Ocean's 8 (both 2018), and Late Night (2019), the last of which she also wrote and produced. She wrote two memoirs both reaching The New York Times Best Seller list.[8] She also received a Tony Award for Best Musical as a producer for the musical A Strange Loop.[9] In 2012, Kaling founded the production company Kaling International.[10]
Kaling was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts to father Avudaiappan Chokalingam, an architect, and mother Swati Chokalingam née Roy-Sircar, an obstetrician/gynecologist (OB/GYN).[11][12] She has an elder brother, Vijay.[13][14] Her parents are from India[15] and met while working at the same hospital in Nigeria. Her father, a Tamilian raised in Chennai,[16][17] was overseeing the building of a hospital wing. Her mother, a Bengali[18][19] from Mumbai,[16][17] was working as an OB/GYN.[20] The family immigrated to the United States in 1979, the same year Kaling was born.[6] Kaling's mother died of pancreatic cancer in 2012.[21][22][23]
Kaling has said she has never been called Vera, her first name,[24] but has been referred to as Mindy since her mother was pregnant with her while her parents were living in Bengal. They were already planning to move to the United States and wanted, Kaling said, a "cute American name" for their daughter, and liked the name Mindy from the TV show Mork & Mindy. The name Vera is, according to Kaling, the name of the "incarnation of a Hindu goddess."[24] Kaling graduated from Buckingham Browne & Nichols, a private school in Cambridge, in 1997. The following year, she entered Dartmouth College, where she was a member of improvisational comedy troupe The Dog Day Players and a cappella group The Rockapellas, produced the comic strip Badly Drawn Girl in The Dartmouth (the college's daily newspaper), and wrote for the Dartmouth Jack-O-Lantern, the college's humor magazine.[25][26]
Kaling graduated from Dartmouth in 2001[27] with a bachelor's degree in playwriting.[28] She was a classics major for much of college and studied Latin, a subject she had been learning since the seventh grade.[20] She lists the comedy series Dr. Katz, Saturday Night Live, Frasier and Cheers as early influences on her comedy.[29]
While a 19-year-old sophomore at Dartmouth, Kaling was an intern on Late Night with Conan O'Brien.[30] She has said that she never saw a family like hers on TV, which gave her a dual perspective she uses in her writing.[31]  She thinks the "everyone against me" mentality is what she learned as a child of immigrants.[31] She named her Mindy Project character Mindy Lahiri after author Jhumpa Lahiri.[32] After college, she moved to Brooklyn, New York.[6] She said one of her worst job experiences was as a production assistant for three months on the Crossing Over With John Edward psychic show.[24] She described it as "depressing."[33] During this same time, she performed stand-up comedy.[31]
Kaling devised her stage name after discovering while doing stand-up comedy that emcees would have trouble pronouncing her last name, Chokalingam, and sometimes made jokes about it.[31] She toured solo and with Craig Robinson, who was later a fellow cast member of The Office.[20] In August 2002, she portrayed Ben Affleck in an off-Broadway play called Matt & Ben,[34] which she co-wrote with her best friend from college, Brenda Withers, who played Matt Damon. Time magazine named it one of their "Top Ten Theatrical Events of The Year", and itwas "a surprise hit" at the 2002 New York International Fringe Festival.[6] Initially, Withers and Kaling had, "for their own entertainment, mockingly pretended to be the best friends Matt Damon and Ben Affleck; that pretending spawned Matt & Ben, the goofy play that reimagined how Damon and Affleck came to write the movie Good Will Hunting."[6]
Kaling wrote a blog, Things I've Bought That I Love,[6] which reemerged on her website on September 29, 2011.[35] She write it under the name Mindy Ephron, "a name Kaling chose because she was amused by the idea of her 20-something Indian-American self as a long-lost Ephron sister."[6]
In 2004, when The Office producer Greg Daniels was working to adapt The Office from the BBC TV series of the same name, he hired Kaling as a writer-performer after reading a spec script she wrote. He said, "She's very original ... If anything feels phony or lazy or passé, she'll pounce on it."[6] When Kaling joined The Office, she was 24 years old and was the only woman on a staff of eight.[6] She took on the role of Kelly Kapoor, debuting in the series' second episode, "Diversity Day".[28] Her TV appearances include a 2005 episode of Curb Your Enthusiasm, playing Richard Lewis's assistant. She is featured on the CD Comedy Death-Ray and guest-wrote parts of an episode of Saturday Night Live in April 2006.[28][33] After her film debut in The 40-Year-Old Virgin with Steve Carell, Kaling appeared in the film Unaccompanied Minors as a waitress.
In an interview with The A.V. Club, she stated that Kelly is "an exaggerated version of what I think the upper-level writers believe my personality is."[33] Kaling directed The Office webisode The 3rd Floor.[36] She directed the Season 6 episode "Body Language," which marked her television directorial debut. In 2007, she had a small part in License to Wed alongside fellow Office actors John Krasinski, Angela Kinsey, and Brian Baumgartner. She starred in the 2009 film Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian as a Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum tour guide.
On September 15, 2011, when her contract was set to expire at the end of Season 7, she signed a new contract to stay with the show for Season 8 and was promoted to full executive producer.[37] Her Universal Television contract included a development deal for a new show (eventually titled The Mindy Project), in which she appeared as an actress and contributed as a writer.[6] Kaling left The Office after the ninth-season episode "New Guys", but returned to guest-star in its final episode. In 2011, Kaling published a memoir, Is Everyone Hanging Out Without Me? (And Other Concerns), which appeared on the New York Times best-seller list.[38] Her second book, Why Not Me?, covers the events that have happened in her life since 2011, and was published on September 15, 2015. It launched at #1 on the New York Times bestseller list.[39] She published a third memoir, Nothing Like I Imagined (Except For Sometimes), with Amazon Original Stories in 2020.
Kaling and her fellow writers and producers of The Office were nominated five consecutive times for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series. In 2010, she was nominated with Daniels for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series for the episode "Niagara."[40]  In a 2019 interview with Elle Magazine, Kaling spoke about the sexism she faced with the Television Academy, having had to go to great lengths to prove her contribution as a producer when the academy informed her she would be cut from the producer list because there were too many producers.[41] She said that to receive her rightful producing credit when The Office was nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding Comedy Series, "They made me, not any of the other producers, fill out a whole form and write an essay about all my contributions as a writer and a producer… I had to get letters from all the other male, white producers saying that I had contributed, when my actual record stood for itself."[42] The Emmys rebutted Kaling's assertion in an interview with Refinery 29, but Kaling clarified in a series of tweets that she had considered her statements necessary.
In 2011, she played the role of Shira, a doctor who is a roommate and colleague of the main character Emma (played by Natalie Portman) in No Strings Attached. Kaling also made an appearance as Vanetha in The Five-Year Engagement in 2012.
In 2012, Kaling pitched a single-camera comedy[43] to Fox called The Mindy Project, which Kaling wrote, produced and starred in.[44] Fox began airing the series in 2012. Also in 2012, Kaling founded the production company, Kaling International.[10]
In 2013, she had a cameo as herself in This is the End.[45] Also in 2013, Time magazine named one of the 100 most influential people in the world.[46] Fox canceled her series The Mindy Project in May 2015, with it later being picked up by Hulu for a 26-episode fourth season and a 16-episode fifth season. In March 2017, Kaling announced that the show's sixth season, which would air starting September 2017, would be the last.[47] The series concluded on November 14, 2017.
Kaling voiced Taffyta Muttonfudge in Disney's animated comedy film Wreck-It Ralph and Disgust in Pixar's 2015 film Inside Out. In 2017, NBC ordered Champions, where Kaling is a co-creator, writer, and producer.[7] She had a recurring guest role on the show, which premiered March 8, 2018, on NBC.[48] It was cancelled after one season. In 2018, she played Mrs. Who in A Wrinkle in Time, the live-action Disney adaptation of the novel, and starred alongside Helena Bonham Carter, Sandra Bullock, Cate Blanchett, Anne Hathaway, Awkwafina and Rihanna in Ocean's 8, the all-female version of Ocean's Eleven.[49] In 2020, Kaling created the Netflix series Never Have I Ever with Lang Fisher, a comedy partially based on Kaling's childhood story growing up in the Boston area.[50] It premiered on Netflix on April 27, 2020, and is about an Indian American high school student, played by Maitreyi Ramakrishnan, dealing with the death of her father.[51] The series received positive reviews.[52] CNN and Teen Vogue have described the series as a watershed moment for South Asian representation in Hollywood, and praised Kaling for breaking South Asian stereotypes.[53][54]
In February 2021, HBO Max announced they had ordered the adult-oriented Scooby-Doo spin-off series Velma, with Kaling as executive producer as well as voicing the titular character.[55][56][57] The series premiered on January 12, 2023, to mixed reviews from critics and overwhelmingly negative reactions from both general audiences and non-critics.[58][59][60] Velma became one of the lowest-rated television shows on IMDb,[61][62] receiving similar low scores from audiences on Rotten Tomatoes and Google.[58][59][63]
In 2023, she was appointed as a board member along with historian June Li and Young Yang Chung for the Smithsonian's National Museum of Asian Art.[64]
Kaling is set to co-write the third installment in the Legally Blonde series with Dan Goor.[65][66] The film was scheduled to be released in May 2022,[67] but has been indefinitely delayed due to scripting.[68] She is also committed to re-team with Dan Goor to write and star alongside Priyanka Chopra in a comedy about an Indian-American wedding under Universal.[69][70]
Kaling has two children: a daughter born in December 2017, and a son born in September 2020. She has kept the paternity of her children private.[71] She is an adherent of Hinduism and has expressed her desire to give her children a Hindu upbringing.[72][73][74]
Kaling has a close friendship with B. J. Novak, whom she met through writing for The Office, with Novak calling Kaling "the most important person in my life" (on Fresh Air with Terry Gross). They dated on and off while writing and acting on the show.[75] Novak is the godfather of Kaling's two children.[76][77]
In 2012, Kaling was included in the Time 100 list of the world's most influential people.[78] In 2014, she was named one of Glamour's Women of the Year.[79] On June 10, 2018, she received an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire.[80]
Kaling owns one per cent of the Welsh football team Swansea City.[81]
Over her career she has received two Screen Actors Guild Awards and the Tony Award, and six Primetime Emmy Awards nominations. She was recognized by Time magazine as one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2013. A decade later she received the Producers Guild of America's Norman Lear Achievement in Television Award, and was awarded the National Medal of the Arts from President Joe Biden.[84]
In 2013, Entertainment Weekly identified Kaling as one of the "50 Coolest and Most Creative Entertainers" in Hollywood.[85] In the same year, Kaling was recognized by Time magazine as one of the 100 most influential people in the world.[46] In March 2023, Kaling was awarded the 2021 National Medal of Arts from the US president Joe Biden in the White House.[86]


"Local Ad" is the ninth episode of the fourth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's sixty-second episode overall. The episode was written by B. J. Novak, who also acts in the show as Ryan Howard, and directed by Jason Reitman.  It originally aired in the United States on October 25, 2007, on NBC.[1]
After a video team is brought to the office to create a commercial for the company, Michael decides that the employees of the Scranton branch of Dunder Mifflin can create a better commercial. While the majority of the staff work on the commercial, Dwight, still depressed from his break-up with Angela, instead chooses to play a computer game.
When Michael Scott (Steve Carell) learns that the Scranton branch's participation in a Dunder Mifflin television commercial is limited to five seconds of the staff waving at the camera, he dismisses the advertising consultants sent to the branch, and convinces the company's corporate headquarters to consider an alternative version that he will produce himself.
Michael asks Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) to design an animated logo, and she works all night on it.[2][3] Phyllis Vance's (Phyllis Smith) mission to enlist visiting author Sue Grafton to appear in the ad is unsuccessful. Headed by Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), a group of employees write and perform a jingle for the commercial, which Michael ultimately rejects. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), meanwhile, struggles throughout the day to recall the product name from an advertising jingle that contains the lyrics "Gimme a break. Gimme a break. Break me off a piece of that..."
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) has largely removed himself to the online virtual world of Second Life. Dwight has created an avatar named Dwight Shelford, also a paper salesman, patterned after his once-perfect real life. He now uses Second Life as an escape from his real-life troubles, even going as far as creating a virtual Second Life, called Second Second Life. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) also creates his own avatar named Jim Samtanko, a guitar-playing Philadelphia sportswriter, and enters Second Life in order to spy on Dwight.
Dwight has also reluctantly become Andy's confidante regarding his relationship with Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), Dwight's former girlfriend. Dwight's spirits are lifted when he learns that, during a makeout session with Andy, Angela cried, "Oh, D!". Though, Andy is oblivious to the fact that Angela was referring to Dwight.
After the corporate headquarters rejects Michael's ad, the office employees gather at Poor Richard's Pub to watch the professionally filmed commercial, which Michael refers to as "the world premiere of corporate crapfest." After the commercial, Jim plays Michael's version of the ad on the bar's television set. Over the theme from Chariots of Fire, as Michael narrates "trite catchphrases",[3] a sheet of paper is depicted making a journey around the world, carrying a variety of messages meaningful to the recipients; as Pam's animated whirling sheets of paper coalesce into the company logo to end the ad, the employees as well as the other patrons of the bar show their approval.
The episode ends with Andy doing an interview, still trying to recall the product name from the jingle. On the basis that it has to rhyme, he incorrectly concludes that it promotes Fancy Feast cat food.
"Local Ad" was the seventh episode of the series written by B. J. Novak, who also acts in the show as Ryan Howard, and the first episode of the series directed by Jason Reitman, who directed the films Juno and Thank You for Smoking. When speaking about his directorial experience with The Office, Reitman stated that "Anyhow, the whole experience was awesome. They’re all geniuses over there. I didn’t have to contribute much at the end of the day because they’re all so on their game."  He also stated that "Weird moment of production design surprise – There's a three ring binder on Creed's desk with the logo from the Academy of Tobacco Studies that we created for [Thank You For] Smoking. I have no idea how it got there and neither does he."[4]  B.J. Novak's brother Jesse, a musician, contributed in writing the song that some of the characters sing in the episode.
The Second Life scenes in "Local Ad" were produced by Clear Ink of Berkeley, CA, using existing locations within Second Life as well as virtual sets created for the episode.[5][6][7] In a study made by IAG Research, the appearance of Second Life in "Local Ad" was rated eighth in the top ten most effective product placements of 2007. The Office was the only non-reality show to make the list, and Second Life was the only product on the list that did not pay for its placement.[8] In a deleted scene, Toby has an idea for the ad: film it in slow-motion so that it will stand out when the viewer uses his TiVo or other DVR to speed past it. The staff loves the idea, but Michael hates it and won't consider it, even though Toby reveals he formerly worked in advertising for three years.
"Local Ad" received a 5.2 Nielsen rating and an 8% Share. The episode was watched by an estimate audience of 8.98 million viewers and achieved a 4.7/11 in the key adults 18–49 demographic.  This means that 4.1 percent of all people aged 18–49 viewed the episode, and eleven percent of all people watching television at the time viewed the episode.[9]
"Local Ad" received generally favorable reviews from critics.  Travis Fickett of IGN gave the episode a favorable review, saying "This episode is a prime example of how The Office is able to do broad comedy while at the same time treating its characters as real people."  Fickett went on to praise the acting of Rainn Wilson as a depressed Dwight, as well as the story's twist.  Fickett stated that "A great twist here is that we think we're watching Michael pilot a sinking ship as usual, but in fact – the ad is quite good. There's some clever stuff in there, albeit some of it not exactly professional in its production, but Michael doesn't do such a bad job."[10]  Like Fickett, Christine Fenno of Entertainment Weekly gave the episode a favorable review.  Fenno said that "The premise of this episode, 'Local Ad' — the Scranton staffers shoot a commercial — was strong, and allowed almost every ensemble member to shine."  Fenno also praised the acting work of Ed Helms as Andy, as well as Steve Carell as Michael.[11]  Oscar Dahl, a Senior Writer for BuddyTV, praised the episode, but also felt that the episode's thirty-minute length created a stark contrast to the previous four episodes' hour-long run, saying "tonight's episode felt short.  Really short."[12]
For his work on this episode, B. J. Novak was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for Best Screenplay – Episodic Comedy, but ultimately failed to win, losing to another episode of The Office, "The Job."[13]



Harold Allen Ramis (/ˈreɪmɪs/; November 21, 1944 – February 24, 2014) was an American actor, comedian, and filmmaker. His film acting roles include Egon Spengler in Ghostbusters (1984) and Ghostbusters II (1989), and as Russell Ziskey in Stripes (1981); he also co-wrote those films. As a director, his films include the comedies Caddyshack (1980), National Lampoon's Vacation (1983), Groundhog Day (1993), Analyze This (1999) and Analyze That (2002). Ramis was the original head writer of the television series SCTV, on which he also performed, as well as a co-writer of Groundhog Day and National Lampoon's Animal House (1978). The final film that he wrote, produced, directed, and acted in was Year One (2009).
Ramis's films influenced subsequent generations of comedians, comedy writers and actors.[1] Filmmakers and actors including Jay Roach, Jake Kasdan, Adam Sandler, Judd Apatow, and Peter and Bobby Farrelly have listed his films among their favorites.[1] Along with Danny Rubin, he won the BAFTA Award for Best Original Screenplay for Groundhog Day.[2]
Ramis was born on November 21, 1944, in Chicago, Illinois,[3] the son of Ruth (née Cokee) (1919–2001) and Nathan Ramis (1915–2009), who owned the Ace Food & Liquor Mart on the city's West Side.[1] Ramis had a Jewish upbringing.[4][5][6][7] In his adult life, he did not practice any religion.[8][9] He graduated from Stephen K. Hayt Elementary School in June 1958 and Nicholas Senn High School in 1962, both Chicago public schools,[10] and in 1966 from Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri,[1][11] where he was a member of the Alpha Xi chapter of Zeta Beta Tau fraternity.[12]
Afterward, Ramis worked in a mental institution in St. Louis for seven months. He later said of his time working there that it:
…prepared me well for when I went out to Hollywood to work with actors. People laugh when I say that, but it was actually very good training. And not just with actors; it was good training for just living in the world. It's knowing how to deal with people who might be reacting in a way that's connected to anxiety or grief or fear or rage. As a director, you're dealing with that constantly with actors. But if I were a businessman, I'd probably be applying those same principles to that line of work.[11]Ramis began writing parodic plays in college, saying years later, "In my heart, I felt I was a combination of Groucho and Harpo Marx, of Groucho using his wit as a weapon against the upper classes, and of Harpo's antic charm and the fact that he was oddly sexy—he grabs women, pulls their skirts off, and gets away with it."[1] He avoided the Vietnam War military draft by taking methamphetamine to fail his draft physical.[13]
Following his work in St. Louis, Ramis returned to Chicago, where by 1968, he was a substitute teacher at schools serving the inner-city Robert Taylor Homes public housing development.[14] He also became associated with the guerrilla television collective TVTV, headed by his college friend Michael Shamberg, and wrote freelance for the Chicago Daily News. "Michael Shamberg, right out of college, had started freelancing for newspapers and got on as a stringer for a local paper, and I thought, 'Well, if Michael can do that, I can do that.' I wrote a spec piece and submitted it to the Chicago Daily News, the Arts & Leisure section, and they started giving me assignments [for] entertainment features."[15] Additionally, Ramis had begun studying and performing with Chicago's Second City improvisational comedy troupe.[16]
Ramis's newspaper writing led to him becoming joke editor at Playboy magazine.[11] "I called…just cold and said I had written several pieces freelance and did they have any openings. And they happened to have their entry-level job, party jokes editor, open. He liked my stuff and he gave me a stack of jokes that readers had sent in and asked me to rewrite them. I had been in Second City in the workshops already and Michael Shamberg and I had written comedy shows in college."[15] Ramis was eventually promoted to associate editor.[17]
After leaving Second City for a time and returning in 1972, having been replaced in the main cast by John Belushi, Ramis worked his way back as Belushi's deadpan foil. In 1974, Belushi brought Ramis and other Second City performers, including Ramis's frequent future collaborator Bill Murray, to New York City to work on The National Lampoon Radio Hour.[1]
During this time, Ramis, Belushi, Murray, Joe Flaherty, Christopher Guest, and Gilda Radner starred in the revue The National Lampoon Show, the successor to National Lampoon's Lemmings.[18] Later, Ramis became a performer on, and head writer of, the Canadian sketch-comedy television series SCTV during its first three years (1976–1979).[19] At this juncture, SCTV was seen mainly in Canada, and also via syndication in scattered markets in the US.  He was soon offered work as a writer at Saturday Night Live but chose to continue with SCTV.[17] Characterizations by Ramis on SCTV include weaselly, corrupt and constantly sweating Dialing for Dollars host/SCTV station manager Maurice "Moe" Green, outwardly amiable (but thoroughly fascist) cop Officer Friendly, exercise guru Swami Bananananda (whose real name was Dennis Peterson), stern board chairman Allan "Crazy Legs" Hirschman and home dentist Mort Finkel. His celebrity impressions on SCTV included Kenneth Clark and Leonard Nimoy.
In 1984, Ramis executive produced a music/comedy/variety television show called The Top. The producer was Paul Flaherty and the director was David Jove. Ramis got involved after the mysterious death of his friend Peter Ivers, who had hosted Jove's underground show New Wave Theatre. He called Jove and offered to help. Flattery and Jove pitched him the idea for The Top, and Ramis was instrumental in getting it on the air.
The show was a mixture of live music, videos, and humor. Performers on the show included Cyndi Lauper, who performed "Girls Just Want to Have Fun" and "True Colors"; the Hollies, who performed "Stop in the Name of Love"; and the Romantics, who performed their two hits at the time, "Talking in Your Sleep" and "What I Like About You."
Guest stars included Rodney Dangerfield, Chevy Chase, and Dan Aykroyd. Ramis got Bill Murray to host but, because Ghostbusters filming ran late, he did not make it to the taping. Chase came out dressed as a "punk" of the time and somehow got into a physical altercation with an audience member (also a punk) during the opening monologue. He immediately left the taping. Flattery and Jove carried on with the show.
Ramis then got Andy Kaufman to fill in for Chase and recorded the host segments at a separate, later, session;  it would be Kaufman's final professional appearance.
The Top aired on Friday, January 27, 1984, at 7 p.m. It scored a 7.7% rating and a 14% share. This represented a 28% rating increase and a 27% share increase over KTLA's regularly scheduled Happy Days/Laverne and Shirley.
Ramis left SCTV to pursue a film career and wrote a script with National Lampoon magazine's Douglas Kenney, which eventually became National Lampoon's Animal House. They were later joined by a third collaborator, Chris Miller. The 1978 film followed the struggle between a rowdy college fraternity house and the college dean. The film's humor was raunchy for its time. Animal House "broke all box-office records for comedies" and earned $141 million.[1]
He also had a voice part as Zeke in the "So Beautiful & So Dangerous" segment of Heavy Metal in 1981.
Ramis next co-wrote the comedy Meatballs, starring Bill Murray. The movie was a commercial success and became the first of six film collaborations between Murray and Ramis.[1] His third film and his directorial debut was Caddyshack, which he wrote with Kenney and Brian Doyle-Murray. It starred Chevy Chase, Rodney Dangerfield, Ted Knight, and Bill Murray. Like Ramis's previous two films, Caddyshack was a commercial success.
In 1982, Ramis was attached to direct the film adaptation of the Pulitzer Prize-winning book A Confederacy of Dunces by John Kennedy Toole.  The film was to star John Belushi and Richard Pryor, but the project was aborted.[20] In 1984, Ramis collaborated with Dan Aykroyd on the screenplay for Ghostbusters, which became one of the biggest comedy hits of all time, in which he also starred as Dr. Egon Spengler.[21] He reprised the role for the 1989 sequel, Ghostbusters II (which he also co-wrote with Aykroyd). His later film Groundhog Day has been called his "masterpiece."[1]
His films have been noted for attacking "the smugness of institutional life…with an impish good [will] that is unmistakably American." They are also noted for "Ramis's signature tongue-in-cheek pep talks." Sloppiness and improv were also important aspects of his work. Ramis frequently depicted the qualities of "anger, curiosity, laziness, and woolly idealism" in "a hyper-articulate voice."[1]
Ramis also occasionally acted in supporting roles in acclaimed films that he did not write or direct, such as James L. Brooks's Academy Award-winning As Good as It Gets (1997) and Judd Apatow's hit comedy Knocked Up (2007).
In 2004, Ramis turned down the opportunity to direct the Bernie Mac-Ashton Kutcher film Guess Who, then under the working title "The Dinner Party," because he considered it poorly written. That same year, he began filming the low-budget The Ice Harvest, "his first attempt to make a comic film noir." Ramis spent six weeks trying to get the film greenlit because he had difficulty reaching an agreement about stars John Cusack's and Billy Bob Thornton's salaries. The film received mixed reviews. In 2004, Ramis's typical directing fee was $5 million.[1]
In an interview in the documentary American Storytellers, Ramis said he hoped to make a film about Emma Goldman (even pitching Disney with the idea of having Bette Midler star)[22] but that none of the film studios were interested and that it would have been difficult to raise the funding.
Ramis said in 2009 that he planned to make a third Ghostbusters film for release either in mid-2011[23] or for Christmas 2012.[24] A reboot to the franchise, also called Ghostbusters, was eventually made and released in 2016, directed and co-written by Paul Feig. In this film, a bronze bust of Ramis can be seen when Erin Gilbert leaves her office at Columbia University. Later, the second sequel to the original film, Ghostbusters: Afterlife, was released in 2021 and posthumously dedicated to him.
Ramis was married twice and had four children. On July 2, 1967,[3] he married San Francisco artist Anne Plotkin, with whom he had a daughter, Violet Ramis Stiel.[1][25] Actor and Ghostbusters co-star Bill Murray is Violet's godfather.[1] Ramis and Plotkin separated in 1984 and later divorced.[1]
Ramis' daughter Mollie Israel (known professionally as Mollie Heckerling) was born in 1985 to him and director Amy Heckerling, while Heckerling was married to actor-director Neal Israel.[26]
In 1989, Ramis married Erica Mann, daughter of director Daniel Mann and actress Mary Kathleen Williams.[27] Together they had two sons, Julian Arthur and Daniel Hayes in 1990 and 1994.[3]
Although Ramis maintained humanist beliefs, Erica's Buddhist upbringing greatly influenced his philosophies for the rest of his life, and he became friends with the Dalai Lama.
Ramis was a Chicago Cubs fan, and when he moved back from Los Angeles to Chicago in the late 1990s, he would attend games at Wrigley Field, sometimes taking part of the seventh-inning stretch of "Take Me Out to the Ball Game".[28][29] His pastimes included fencing, ritual drumming, acoustic guitar, and making hats from felted fleece; additionally, he taught himself to ski by watching skiers on television.[1]
In May 2010, Ramis contracted an infection that resulted in complications from autoimmune inflammatory vasculitis and lost the ability to walk. After relearning to walk he suffered a relapse of the disease in late 2011.[30]
He died of complications of the disease on February 24, 2014, at his home on Chicago's North Shore, at age 69.[30] A private funeral was held for him two days later with family, friends, and several collaborators in attendance, including Dan Aykroyd, Chevy Chase, Eugene Levy, Dave Thomas, David Pasquesi, Andrew Alexander, and the widows of John Belushi and Bernard Sahlins. He is buried at Shalom Memorial Park in Arlington Heights.[31]
Upon Ramis's death, then-President Barack Obama released a statement, saying, "When we watched his movies—from Animal House and Caddyshack to Ghostbusters and Groundhog Day—we didn't just laugh until it hurt. We questioned authority. We identified with the outsider. We rooted for the underdog. And through it all, we never lost our faith in happy endings."[32] He ended his statement by saying he hoped Ramis "received total consciousness," in reference to a line from Caddyshack.[33]
Ramis and longtime collaborator Bill Murray had a falling out during the filming of Groundhog Day, which Ramis attributed to problems that Murray had in his own life at the time. They did not speak for more than 20 years. Shortly before Ramis's death, Murray, encouraged by his brother Brian Doyle-Murray, visited him to make amends with a box of donuts and a police escort, according to Ramis's daughter Violet. At that point, Ramis had lost most of his ability to speak, so Murray did most of the talking over several hours.[34] Murray gave a tribute to Ramis at the 86th Academy Awards.[35]
Stephen Colbert paid tribute to Ramis on an episode of his show The Colbert Report. Colbert said that "as a young, bookish man with glasses looking for a role model, I might have picked Harold Ramis." He ended the show by thanking him.[36]
In 2004, Ramis was inducted into the St. Louis Walk of Fame.[37] In 2005, he received the Austin Film Festival's Distinguished Screenwriter Award.[38] In 2010, he received a lifetime achievement award from the Chicago Improv Festival.[39] In 2015, the Writers Guild of America posthumously honored him with their lifetime achievement award, the Laurel Award for Screenwriting Achievement.[40]
In 2016, two years after his death, The Second City founded the Harold Ramis Film School, the first film school to focus solely on film comedy, in his honor.
The 2016 film Ghostbusters, a reboot of the series Ramis co-created and starred in, was posthumously dedicated to him.[41] A bust of Ramis appears in the film.[42][43] In the 2021 movie Ghostbusters: Afterlife, the age-progressed image of Ramis appears as the ghost of Egon Spengler; a dedication before the end credits also reads "for Harold."
On February 2, 2024, Chicago declared every February 2nd going forward to be "Harold Ramis Day".[44][45]
Ramis frequently collaborated with director Ivan Reitman. He co-wrote National Lampoon's Animal House, which Reitman produced, then co-wrote the Reitman comedy Meatballs; he co-wrote and appeared in the Reitman films Stripes, Ghostbusters, and Ghostbusters II.
Executive producer


"Booze Cruise" is the eleventh episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's seventeenth episode overall.  Written by Greg Daniels and directed by Ken Kwapis, the episode first aired in the United States on January 5, 2006 on NBC. The episode featured Rob Riggle and Amy Adams as guest stars.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) brings the office on a booze cruise and plans on doing some "motivational" speaking. After he learns that the captain of the boat has other plans, a power struggle emerges. Meanwhile, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) and Roy's (David Denman) previously stagnant relationship blossoms, while Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Katy's (Amy Adams) begins to falter.
The story for "Booze Cruise" was inspired by a friend of B. J. Novak's who had gone on a booze cruise. Novak told Daniels about the trip, and Daniels then proceeded to write an episode about it. The episode featured the third and final appearance of Katy, portrayed by Amy Adams. The filming of the episode was a departure from the norm of the series; filming took place on an actual boat and because of this, many cast members got seasick. "Booze Cruise" received largely positive reviews from critics. The episode earned a Nielsen rating of 4.5 in the 18–49 demographic and was viewed by 8.7 million viewers.
The Dunder Mifflin crew goes on a cruise on a Lake Wallenpaupack ship Princess—in January. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) plans to use the cruise as both a party and a leadership training exercise. However, "Captain Jack" (Rob Riggle) keeps preventing him from giving a business lecture and compromises his metaphor involving himself as "captain" of the office.
The captain puts Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) in charge of a prop wheel, which Dwight thinks is real. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), who has brought his girlfriend Katy Moore (Amy Adams) on the cruise, and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) share an awkward moment alone on the deck away from their significant others. Michael continually tries to take charge of the event by standing next to the captain and interrupting everything he says. When Michael falsely declares that the ship is sinking as a training exercise, his employees understand Michael's antics and stay put. However, the other passengers panic, one of them grabbing a life vest and jumping off the ship. The captain temporarily detains Michael by zip tying him to the railing on the deck outside.
After hearing a war story from the captain, a drunken Roy Anderson (David Denman) is inspired to announce a date for his wedding with Pam. Jim is crushed and breaks up with Katy, realizing that he does not want to be with her. He confesses his feelings for Pam to Michael, who acts surprised and claims Jim hid his feelings well. Michael encourages him to not give up on Pam.
"Booze Cruise" was written by Greg Daniels, making it his fourth writing credit, and his second season two credit, after "Halloween" earlier in the year.[2][3] The episode was directed by Ken Kwapis, making it his sixth directing credit for the series.[2][4] Daniels referred to this episode as "our Scranton version of James Cameron's Titanic".[5] The idea came from B. J. Novak because a friend of his went on a booze cruise. Novak told Daniels about the trip, and Daniels then proceeded to write an episode about it.[6]
"Booze Cruise" featured the third and final appearance of Katy, portrayed by Amy Adams. Adams thoroughly enjoyed her work on the show.[7] In an interview with Advocate.com, she said, "[The Office] was the best work experience. I loved that show and that cast so much. I don’t know if they believe me, but every time I see them I’m like, 'Oh my gosh, I’ll do anything to come back.'"[7]
Shooting for "Booze Cruise" was a departure from the norm of the series: For one thing, the majority of the episode was filmed away from the Dunder Mifflin set. For another thing, the episode was not filmed during the day, but rather during the night, from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m.[8] Principal filming took place in Long Beach Harbor, California.[9] Because the episode took place on an actual boat, many cast members got seasick. Rainn Wilson grew especially nauseated on the second night, and Jenna Fischer and David Denman felt nauseated on the last night of shooting.[9]
During the final sound mixing for the episode, Daniels recalls yelling at the shot of Jim and Pam on deck. He noted that he had "seen it many, many times, but I was yelling, 'Do it, you idiot! Kiss her!'"[10]
During the conference room scene, Michael asks if anyone has seen the 1997 film Titanic. Pam and Jim pretend that they have never heard of the movie, and Pam suggests that Michael is thinking of the 1990 movie The Hunt for Red October. When the employees are boarding the boat, Michael sings the "Ballad of Gilligan's Island", the theme from the 1964 television series Gilligan's Island. Michael assigns the following roles: Pam is Mary Ann, Jim is The Professor, Katy is Ginger, Angela is Mrs. Howell, Kelly is a "native", Stanley is one of the Harlem Globetrotters, Michael is The Skipper, and Dwight is Gilligan.[11] While on the cruise, Michael shouts "I'm the king of the world" referencing Leonardo DiCaprio's character Jack Dawson from the aforementioned film Titanic.
"Booze Cruise" originally aired on NBC in the United States on January 5, 2006.[12] The episode received a 4.5 rating/11% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 4.5% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. At the time, this was the best 18- 49 rating that the show had had. The episode was viewed by 8.7 million viewers. Furthermore, the series retained 87 percent of its My Name is Earl lead-in audience.[13] An encore presentation of the episode, on June 27, 2006, received a 1.8/6 rating and was viewed by over 4.1 million viewers.[14]
"Booze Cruise" received acclaim from critics. M. Giant of Television Without Pity graded the episode with an "A".[11] Michael Sciannamea of TV Squad stated "This sitcom gets better every week" and that "What made this one quite good was that they didn't rely on Dwight too much, although the bits with him 'driving' the boat were good."[15] Monique Marcil of Zap2it said that the "28 seconds of silence between co-workers Jim and Pam capture all the awkwardness and longing of unspoken love better than any words could. And it's these private moments caught on film by the unseen documentary crew that give this otherwise tart sitcom its sweetness."[16] John Krasinski stated that "Booze Cruise" included two of his favorite scenes to film: Jim's conversation with Pam, and Jim's conversation with Michael. He later called both of the shots "beautiful" and noted that it was "nothing short of an honor" to film them with Fischer and Carell, respectively.[17] TV Fanatic reviewed several of the episodes quotes; Steve Marsi rated Jim's quote, "You know what? I would save the receptionist. Just wanted to clear that up" a 3 out of 5.[18] Marsi also rated Jim and Michael's conversation about Pam a 5 out of 5.[18]


"Double Date" is the ninth episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 109th episode overall.[2] It was written by Charlie Grandy and directed by Seth Gordon. It originally aired on NBC on November 5, 2009.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Jim and Pam finally go on a double date with Michael and Pam's mother Helene on Helene's birthday, which takes a dark turn when Michael discovers just how old Helene is turning, and breaks up with her. Meanwhile, Dwight offers to do nice things for all the members of the office so that they will owe him a specific favor, but Andy ruins his plans.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) have constantly tried to avoid social contact with Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Helene (Linda Purl), Pam's mother. However, Pam relents on the occasion of Helene's birthday, saying there is "no way out." Pam is disgusted that Michael picked a childhood restaurant that she likes (she snaps that maybe Michael will start dating her favorite meal from there as well) and registered the group as the Scott family. But when Pam sees that her mother is really happy with Michael, and he in return is extremely charming and loving to Helene, she ultimately starts to warm up to the thought of their dating. However, when Michael learns that Helene is turning 58 and is not interested in traveling or going white-water rafting, he worries that the romance between them will be boring and mundane. Michael points out their differences, saying he wants to do certain activities while he still can, and breaks up with Helene right in the middle of her birthday lunch, as Pam and Jim watch in horror.
Back at the office, Michael tries to bribe a furious Pam with a raise, but when she figures out his scheme, he asks her what she wants. Pam decides that she wants to hit Michael in the parking lot with everyone watching, to which Michael nervously agrees. Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) makes sure that Pam will hit Michael off company property, and helps her work on her punching technique. Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) and Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) warn Michael that Pam has "crazy pregnancy strength." That afternoon in the parking lot, Michael initially winces at Pam's attempts to hit him before sincerely apologizing about the whole ordeal. Pam orders Michael never to date another member of her family again, and he agrees. As Pam walks away, Michael protests that Helene came onto him, and Pam slaps him in the face, to the shock of the rest of the office. As the group disperses, Pam admits to Jim that he was correct; hitting Michael did not make her feel better.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) is strangely doing nice things, such as buying New York bagels for everyone in the office and cleaning out the refrigerator in the office kitchen. He is actually trying to make everyone in the office indebted to him so that he can later cash in the favors by demanding they help him get Jim fired. He becomes annoyed when Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) immediately returns his favors, polishing Dwight's briefcase and buying everyone lunch. Everyone else in the office eventually returns Dwight's favors in the form of a Starbucks gift card, and Dwight is infuriated that he wasted his day. At the end of the episode, Dwight is icing Michael's face after he got hit by Pam, and Michael says to Dwight: “I owe you one.” Dwight interprets this literally and says he wants Jim fired. Michael refuses, and Dwight storms off.
This episode was watched by 8.1 million viewers, with a 4.1 rating and a 10 share in the 18–49 demographic.[3]


"The Return" (originally titled "Oscar's Return"[2]) is the fourteenth episode of the third season of the American version of The Office and the show's 42nd overall. In the episode, the office celebrates the return of Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) who had been on vacation since the first episode of the season. Meanwhile, a recently departed Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) finds a job at Staples.
The episode was written by Michael Schur, Lee Eisenberg, and Gene Stupnitsky, and it was directed by series creator Greg Daniels. Actor Oscar Nunez returned to The Office after having left to film the television series Halfway Home. The annoying personality of Ed Helms's character Andy was noted by multiple observers, and even irritated the actor's own mother to such a degree that she could not watch the episode. "The Return" marked Helms' departure from The Office until the season's nineteenth episode "Safety Training".
For its first American broadcast on January 18, 2007 on NBC, "The Return" aired to an estimated 10.15 million viewers according to Nielsen Media Research. It was positively received by television critics, with several focusing on the character development of Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey). Along with "Traveling Salesmen", NBC later re-broadcast "The Return" as a combined hour-long episode as part of their sweeps week. As a result, both episodes underwent editing which included the addition of four minutes of previously unseen footage.
Having quit Dunder Mifflin, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) settles for a job at Staples. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) relishes the thought of becoming Michael Scott's (Steve Carell) new Number Three and begins to pester Michael for attention. When Andy begins to irritate his co-workers, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), after getting no support from Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) or Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), recruits Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) to play a prank on Andy by hiding his cell phone (which plays Rockin' Robin, sung a cappella by Andy himself) in the ceiling and continually calling it.
Meanwhile, Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) returns to the office from his leave of absence, and Michael wants to celebrate by asking the Party Planning Committee to throw a Mexican-themed fiesta that includes firecrackers, a chihuahua and a donkey. Later, as Jim and Pam continue to call Andy's hidden cell phone, he is pushed over the edge by the combination of Jim and Pam's prank and Michael's rejection of his friendship, and in a fit of rage punches a hole in the wall.
When Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) finally reveals to Michael that she was the cause of Dwight's secret visit to Corporate, Michael realizes his error in forcing Dwight out and goes to Staples to ask him to return to Dunder Mifflin. Angela was worried that Michael would realize the two were involved in a romantic relationship, but Michael believes that Dwight saved Angela out of loyalty to the company. Dwight returns to the office and, much to his delight, thinks Oscar's welcome back party is actually meant for him.
Karen has noticed how much fun Jim and Pam had together during their prank on Andy; she confronts Jim and asks him if he still has feelings for Pam. Jim nods as he quietly says yes and Karen walks out of the room, visibly upset. Meanwhile, corporate sends Andy to anger management where he plans to get out of the 10-week program in five weeks through his usual charms: name repetition and personality imitation.
"The Return" was written by Michael Schur, Lee Eisenberg, and Gene Stupnitsky, while series creator and executive producer Greg Daniels directed and Dean Holland edited.[3] The original title of this episode was "Oscar's Return",[4] a reference to the reappearance of actor Oscar Nunez, who had temporarily left the series after the season premiere. Nunez spent the interim working on the Comedy Central series Halfway Home. It was the last episode Daniels filmed before the Thanksgiving holiday, the start of an eight-week break for the cast and crew.[5][6]
Then-president of NBC Entertainment Kevin Reilly played Dwight's first interviewer.[3][7] Ed Helms noted in the audio commentary that his mother had trouble watching a string of episodes that included "The Return" because she found his character so annoying. Helms recorded the self-recorded cellphone ring on his own personal computer. For the big anger scene, Helms actually bloodied his knuckles while punching the wall, something that took five or six takes. Steve Carell and Rainn Wilson had difficulty with their reuniting scene and had to stage it in several different ways. As part of the episode is set in one of their stores, office supply chain Staples Inc. watched the episode carefully to ensure they were not portrayed negatively; they were particularly afraid that Dwight's manner of quitting was disrespectful to the company.[3] At the time "The Return" aired, no one was certain Helms would be returning.[3] In early February, NBC confirmed Helms had been hired on as a series regular for the rest of the year,[8] with the actor returning in the season's nineteenth episode, "The Negotiation".[9]
"The Return" was later rebroadcast with "Traveling Salesmen" as a combined hour-long episode, on March 15, 2007.[2] NBC added previously unaired and re-edited scenes into the episode, which was perceived by one commentator as a method to "boost the ratings during the content dearth known as repeat week, giving its replays a creative twist".[10] Greg Daniels explained that in addition to the attempt to attract a larger audience, "it's about giving something extra to our wonderful fans…their loyalty must be rewarded somehow, and we don't have the budget for 10 million muffin baskets."[10][11]
Andy tells Michael he is going to "get my Lost on", a reference to the ABC science fiction drama television series. Andy sings The Cranberries' 1994 hit song "Zombie", which was the most annoying song Helms and Krasinski could think of for Andy to sing.[3] Dwight later returns to the office wearing a sweatshirt prominently displaying Battlestar Galactica, a Syfy military science fiction television series.[3] When referring to Andy's weirdness, Michael mentions radio broadcaster Marv Albert, who was convicted of sexual assault in the late 1990s.[12]
"The Return" first aired on January 18, 2007 in the United States on NBC. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was watched by an estimated 10.15 million viewers.[13] The Office and its lead-in My Name is Earl finished first in the 18–49 demographic against its time slot competitors, though it was not enough to prevent the overall network from finishing in third place among total viewers.[14] The same day as the episode broadcast, NBC renewed The Office for a full fourth season, which came as no surprise to media pundits.[15]
Beginning his review, Buddy TV's Oscar Dahl declared Andy was "one of the most devastatingly annoying characters on television". Dahl liked Dwight's scenes at Staples, and wrote that series was becoming "more and more difficult to write about. It's really funny. Consistently funny. Great episodes, week after week, breed little in the way of discussion [...] We have to appreciate greatness while it's here. The Office is in the midst of a historic run of consistently great episodes. Bask in it."[16] AOL TV writer Michael Sciannamea agreed with Dahl's initial assessment of Andy, and called him the "most obnoxious sitcom character in the last few years". Sciannamea enjoyed seeing more of Angela's and Michael's personalities, and believed Andy was a "short-timer" to the series.[17]
Entertainment Weekly contributor Abby West praised Angela Kinsey's performance, noting that she "brought wonderful contradictions to her prickly office priss".[12] West also enjoyed the love triangle for being "so skillfully kept as the subplot it should be. It is as much due to the light touches of the three actors as to the writers... It's refreshing that Jim and Karen have mostly been so mature and honest, but that's a sure sign that the relationship will devolve, because the setup for the success for most long-term TV romances requires miscommunication and no confrontation."[12] In his review of the third season, Travis Fickett of IGN highlighted a scene of the episode; he commented, "Watching Andy slowly meltdown when he can't find his cell phone is one of the better moments of the season."[18]

"Dwight's Speech" is the seventeenth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's twenty-third episode overall. Written by Paul Lieberstein and directed by Charles McDougall, the episode first aired in the United States on March 2, 2006 on NBC.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) helps Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) with an important speech that he is going to give. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) plans a vacation to avoid Pam Beesly's (Jenna Fischer) wedding.
The speech scene employed over 500 extras, an unusual occurrence for the series. Much of Dwight's speech is based upon real speeches by Italian fascist dictator Benito Mussolini. The episode received largely positive reviews from television critics. In its original broadcast, "Dwight's Speech" earned a Nielsen rating of 4.4 in the 18–49 demographic, being viewed by 8.4 million viewers.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) is named Northeastern Pennsylvania Salesman of the Year and must make a speech at an association meeting at the Radisson Lackawanna Station Hotel, getting some assistance from Michael Scott (Steve Carell). Before he leaves, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), in retaliation for Dwight's cocky attitude, gives him tips on how to give public speeches. Unknown to Dwight, Jim's tips are taken from speeches by infamous dictators, such as Italian fascist leader Benito Mussolini. When Michael and Dwight make it to the convention, Dwight gets cold feet and Michael goes up and tries to relive his glory days of winning Salesman of the Year two years in a row, but ends up embarrassing himself on the stage. Dwight finally works up the nerve to give his speech and, by using Jim's advice, wins over the crowd with a passionate yet unorthodox speech. Michael ends up leaving the convention room and later entertains Dwight with his tales at the bar.
Meanwhile, back in the office, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) begins to write invitations for her approaching wedding with help from Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) and Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling). Kelly talks about her dreams of getting married someday and is visibly hurt when Ryan responds to her flirtatious question about future weddings by saying he doesn't think he'll ever tie the knot; when Kelly leaves the room, Pam advises Ryan to be considerate of Kelly's feelings, but Ryan curtly notes "I know what I said." Jim makes plans for a vacation anywhere away from Scranton, and while that happens, the other employees subtly duel over the thermostat. At the end of the episode, Jim tells Pam that he will be going to Australia and, unfortunately, he will be missing her wedding as a result.
"Dwight's Speech" was directed by Charles McDougall, making it his second directing credit after the earlier second season episode "Christmas Party".[2][3] "Dwight's Speech" was written by Paul Lieberstein, who plays human resources director Toby Flenderson.[4] Lieberstein later revealed that Jim never went on his trip to Australia, noting "The whole Pam thing took him by surprise, he transferred and then wasn’t really up for vacation. Unless, of course, we find a good joke in his vacation."[5]
During the earlier scenes when Dwight is in Michael's office, Pam can be seen in the background talking to Meredith. According to actress Jenna Fischer, she and Kate Flannery stayed in character and acted out mundane talking scenes. Although they were not recorded, the dialogue was very detailed. In a guest post written for TV Guide, Fischer described several of the conversations, which ranged from Pam and Meredith discussing "the problems with the new quality-assurance computer-input program", that the computers don't "accept both alpha and numeric characters", "backlog [of] receipts dating to 2001", and that Dunder Mifflin "changed to all-numeric product codes in 2004 and the computer system does not allow for the earlier records."[4]
The speech scene employed over 500 extras, which was unusual for The Office, and was hectic for the crew to organize.[4]
The Season Two DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Dwight coming to work wearing sunglasses, Michael criticizing Dwight's speaking skills, Dwight trying to tell another joke to the office, Ryan bringing the wrong type of stamps for Pam's wedding invitations, and an extended scene of Michael's unfunny and very awkward speech.[6]
In order to practice his public speaking skills, Dwight tries to convince the office that Brad Pitt was in a car accident. Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) then states that it "is karma because of what he did to Jennifer Aniston."[7] During the meeting in the break room Dwight references Good Morning, Vietnam. Michael later references the movie at the actual convention when he is filling time for Dwight.[7] When Jim asks the office where he should go for vacation, Kevin tells him he should go to Hedonism Resorts, describing it as "Club Med, only everything is naked."[7] Toby tells him he should go to Amsterdam, while Creed informs him that he should go to Hong Kong. Dwight later reveals that, given the chance, he would go to New Zealand to "walk the Lord of the Rings trail to Mordor and I will hike Mount Doom."[7][8] Much of Dwight's speech is drawn from a variety of sources, including the following:      
"Dwight's Speech" originally aired on NBC on March 2, 2006.[14] The episode received a 4.4 rating/10 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[15] This means that it was seen by 4.4 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[15] The episode was viewed by 8.4 million viewers, and retained 88 percent of its lead-in My Name Is Earl audience.[15] An encore presentation of the episode on August 15 received a 1.9 rating/6 percent share and was viewed by over 4.6 million viewers and retained 100 percent of its lead-in audience.[16]
"Dwight's Speech" received mostly positive reviews. Michael Sciannamea of TV Squad wrote that he wonders if the Jim-Pam relationship "will reach some sort of resolution or become a season-ending cliffhanger". Sciannamea also noted that "you know you're living in a Bizarro World when Dwight wins Dunder Mifflin's salesman of the year award."[17] M. Giant of Television Without Pity graded the episode with an "A–."[7] Francis Rizzo III of DVD Talk felt that Dwight's enlarged role was great, but noted that the episode was not as funny as his "strange behavior" in "The Injury."[18]
Betsy Bozdech of DVD Journal described "Dwight's Speech" as an instant classic.[19] Not all reviews were so glowing. Brendan Babish of DVD Verdict felt that "Dwight's Speech" was "one of the few misfires" of the season, noting that it "certainly has laughs", but that "its humor is a bit too absurd compared to the show's usual riffs on office ennui".[20] He ultimately gave the episode a "B−", but wrote that "Dwight's Speech" being the worst episode of the season was a "testament to the show's excellence."[20]
IGN ranked the scene with Dwight making his speech as its third-best moment in the first two seasons, and called Wilson's performance a "hilariously spot-on impersonation of Mussolini's crazed arm movements."[21] In addition, Rolling Stone named the same scene the eighteenth-funniest scene in the first three seasons of The Office.[22]



"The List" is the eighth season premiere of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 153rd episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on September 22, 2011. It was written and directed by executive producer B. J. Novak.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, new CEO Robert California (James Spader) writes a mysterious list that has a line down the middle and every member of the office on either one side or the other. The office members frantically try to figure out what it means, causing a crisis for new manager Andy Bernard.
"The List" was the first episode of The Office to feature James Spader's Robert California in a starring role. The episode received moderately positive reviews with many commenting that it proved the series could survive without Carell. According to Nielsen Media Research, "The List" drew an estimated 7.63 million viewers and received a 3.9 rating/10% share in the 18–49 demographic, making it, at the time, the lowest-rated season premiere since the first-season premiere.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) explains to the camera that Robert California (James Spader) was appointed Regional Manager of the Scranton Branch, but on his first day traveled to Florida and convinced Jo Bennett to give him her position as CEO of Dunder Mifflin-Sabre. Robert then appointed Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) as Scranton Regional Manager in his place. Andy makes it his goal for the office to receive a half day off on the Friday before the Columbus Day weekend.
Robert accidentally leaves his personal notebook at Erin Hannon's (Ellie Kemper) desk, and she notices it contains a list of Scranton's employees on two columns with a line down the middle. Concerned about what the list means, the employees pressure Andy to ask Robert about it. Robert is offended by Andy's inquiry, assuming that he snooped through his notebook. While brushing the list off as "doodles," he conspicuously moves Andy's name from the left column to the right. Later that day, Robert invites the employees on the left column to lunch: Jim, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith), Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) and Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez). After they leave, the "right-siders" try to console themselves with a pizza party, but remain despondent about their exclusion.
During lunch (which Toby decides to eventually leave), the "left-siders" pester Robert about the list. Slightly intoxicated, Robert informs them that the left-siders are "winners" while the right side are "losers". Jim is astonished, but the others become cocky. Kevin sends a mass text to the right-siders, mocking them as "losers", and later squirts Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) with a water pistol. Andy does not like this and confronts Robert with a demand to alter the list. Robert refuses, and then speaks to everyone by admitting to calling certain members of the office losers, but also reprimanding them for fixating so much on someone else's opinion of them, saying he will be working with them a long time and that his opinions on certain people may very well change, finishing with "Winners, prove me right; losers, prove me wrong". The workers are satisfied, but Andy is not, and lists off the qualities the right-siders have, stating that: Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) may be a “lazy grump”, he but has the best sales record in the office (something Robert admits to being unaware of); Meredith is persistent and the word "no" is not in her vocabulary; and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) is "easily the most creative and kind person [he has] ever worked with". Andy concedes to Robert that putting Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) in the losers' column was "astute". He then demands the Columbus half day and exits, prompting a respecting smile from Robert. Though the office annually gets the half day in any case, they happily wish him good evening as they depart, and Andy looks very pleased with his work as the boss.
Pam is pregnant with her and Jim's second child (revealed to be a boy) and is emotional, easily brought to tears throughout the day. Angela is also pregnant, having married the state senator Robert Lipton over the summer, and says that she's "Little Preg" to Pam's "Big Preg". When Jim picks up his things to leave for the day, he "accidentally" drops a piece of paper. Pam picks it up and sees Jim's personal winners and losers list: Pam, Cece and their new baby are on the left, and the words "everything else" is written on the right. Pam tearfully vows to frame it.
The episode was written and directed by executive producer B. J. Novak, who also portrays Ryan Howard in the series. It is Novak's fourteenth writing credit and third directing credit for the series. "The List", which commenced filming on July 25, 2011,[2] served to redefine and reorient The Office, as the series's former lead actor Steve Carell had left the show following the previous season's twenty-second episode, "Goodbye, Michael".[3] The plot of this episode is furthermore a continuation of and a resolution to the plot of the seventh season finale "Search Committee", wherein several potential candidates (most of whom were played by guest actors) appeared, but no definitive decision as to who would become the new manager was offered.[4]
On June 27, 2011, co-creator and executive producer Ricky Gervais announced that James Spader was to join the cast on a permanent basis.[5] Spader subsequently appeared in this episode, having previously made a cameo in the aforementioned seventh season finale.[6] He would go on to appear in 15 of the eighth's seasons episodes, and throughout the season he served as a replacement for Jo Bennett, the former CEO of Sabre (who was portrayed by Kathy Bates, who had left the series due to her commitment for the NBC drama series, Harry's Law).[6] In addition to Spader joining the cast, "The List" also revealed that Andy (portrayed by Ed Helms) would ascend to the position of manager; the series' executive Producer and showrunner Paul Lieberstein revealed this information to Ed Helms during lunch in June.[7] Prior to their decision, the writers had gone through the main contenders for the job, Darryl, Dwight and Andy, and concluded that Andy would be the best choice.[7] Finally, this episode opens with the announcement that Pam is pregnant with her second child. Pam's pregnancy was written into the show so as to correspond with Jenna Fischer's real-life pregnancy.[8]
The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Ryan explaining where trends comes from and Gabe explaining why he's back in a talking head, Andy attempting to calm everybody down while they try to figure out what the list means, and more scenes with the winner's lunch and the loser's pizza party.[9]
The cold open features multiple workers "planking", an activity consisting of lying face down in an unusual or incongruous location. Throughout the episode, Pam is seen crying at a commercial for The Travelers Companies featuring a dog trying to keep his dog bone safe.[10]
In its original American broadcast on September 22, 2011,[11] "The List" was viewed by an estimated 7.63 million viewers and received a 3.9 rating/10% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[12]  This means that it was seen by 3.9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked an 11 percent fall in the demographic from the seventh-season premiere, "Nepotism", making it the lowest-rated season premiere. It was also the last episode of The Office  to be viewed by more than 7 million viewers.[12] The episode ranked second in its timeslot beating Person of Interest which received a 3.1 rating/8% share in the 18–49 demographic and The Secret Circle which received a 0.9 rating/2% share, but was defeated by The X Factor which received a 4.4 rating/11% share and tied with Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.9 rating/10% share.[12] "The List" was the twenty-second most-watched show for the week of broadcast among adults aged 18–49.[13]
The curse of recent seasons of The Office has been unevenness, so until they've made it through a few episodes, it's tough to give a diagnosis of the post-Carell show. But that was about as good a first outing as they could have hoped to have.
Linda Holmes, NPR[14]"The List" received moderately positive reviews. Myles McNutt of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B" and wrote that the entry "was about on par with what the show was delivering last season."[15] He was slightly critical of the episode's tone, noting that it "eschew[ed] subtlety" and, instead, yielded, "a thesis statement for the transitional season to come".[15] HitFix reviewer Alan Sepinwall complimented the final scene featuring Andy confronting Robert calling it "sweet and felt genuine, in the way that made the show's early days feel special."[10] Despite this, he said the "story fell a little flat."[10]
Linda Holmes of NPR praised the choice of adding James Spader, making Andy the manager, and praised the writers for differentiating Andy as manager from Michael.[14] IGN writer Cindy White praised the episode for being an "ensemble affair" writing that "And when you've got an ensemble this strong, that's a smart way to go".[16] She concluded that "In context with the rest of NBC's hilarious Thursday-night lineup ... The Office can't help but seem a little long in the tooth. But you can always rely on it for at least a few laugh-out-loud moments ... I'm not ready to call time of death on this show just yet.[16] She ultimately gave the episode an 8.0/10.[16] TV Guide writers Joyce Eng and Kate Stanhope called the promotion of Andy as manager the third best television moment of the week.[17] James Poniewozik of Time gave the episode a positive review commenting that "it at least showed that a season 8 Office is capable of delivering the funny as well as the character grace notes".[18]

"Suit Warehouse" is the eleventh episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 187th episode overall. The episode was written by Dan Greaney and directed by Matt Sohn. It originally aired on NBC on January 17, 2013.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Clark returns from his stint as Jan's sexual assistant and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) enlists his help; the two pose as a father and son so that they can successfully sell to the owner of a suit warehouse. Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) travels to Philadelphia with Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) to interview at Jim's new company. Meanwhile, Pam starts to realize that her family may have to leave Scranton.
"Suit Warehouse" received mainly positive reviews from critics. The episode was also viewed by 4.15 million viewers and received a 2.1/5 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking second in its timeslot. The episode ultimately ranked as the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) is off to Philadelphia to interview at Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) new company, Athlead, and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) decides to come along, since office manager Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) is still not back from his sailboat excursion. She asks Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) to take care of a shipment of pens while she is gone. Pam's lack of specific instructions leaves Erin in a state of indecision over whether she should put the pens away once they arrive. She eventually decides to put them away for fear of being called lazy, but as she does so the other office workers teasingly accuse her of trying to take over Pam's job of office administrator in her absence. Overwhelmed, Erin puts the pens back in the shipping box.
On the drive to Athlead, Darryl opens up to Pam that he is worried about the interview, having had bad experience with interviews. At Jim's new company, Pam gives Darryl a thumbs up as he heads into the interview room, and then is chatted up by an employee who says "Jim speaks about you all the time" and we "can't wait for you to move here." The thought of moving to Philadelphia disturbs her. Meanwhile, Darryl initially fumbles his interview due to nerves and feelings of inadequacy, but everyone else helps calm him down, and he makes a strong reversal. Darryl concludes the interview by attempting to shoot a basket with the room's sports decorations, but instead knocks a light fixture into the fish tank, electrocuting all the fish. Pam commiserates with Darryl over this embarrassing misstep. Jim returns to inform Darryl that although he will have to pay for the fish, he has the job. During the drive home, Darryl gushes over his new job and the chance to live in Philadelphia while Pam worries about where she and her family will be in the future.
At Dunder Mifflin, Clark Green (Clark Duke) returns from his stint as Jan Levinson's (Melora Hardin) sexual assistant, in exchange for Jan giving them her business. Despite the awkward past couple of weeks, Jan has gifted them an espresso machine, and the rest of the office jumps on the opportunity to "test" out several espresso flavors. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) enlists Clark's help to snag a newly freed account at a suit warehouse; the two will pose as a father and son so that they can successfully sell to the Stones, father and son owners of the warehouse. Dwight leads off on how proud he is of Clark to Sam Stone Sr. (Ed Lauter), but when Stone admits that he and his own son are not on good terms, Dwight and Clark awkwardly shift gears and begin a show of childishly sniping at each other. Clark tries to move on to business, but Dwight continues to interrupt him with insults, and even makes a dig at Sam Stone Jr. (Will Greenberg) when he arrives. When the elder Stone reveals that his son has forced him out of the company and that he is now there strictly for his own social benefit, Clark takes the lead and makes the sale to the younger Stone. Both Dwight and Clark also buy a suit from the company to celebrate their team sale.
Back at the office, the staff have drunk multiple cups of espresso and experience a caffeine rush along with a powerful surge in office productivity. As the rush dies down, they all begin to sweat profusely, become highly irritable and argumentative, try to relocate the copy machine and frantically tear up the office carpet to reveal the hardwood underneath. At five o'clock everybody leaves the office in total disarray. When Pam and Darryl arrive back from Philadelphia, Erin angrily tells Pam she didn't take care of the pens, and they are bewildered by the sight they encounter.
"Suit Warehouse" was written by consulting producer Dan Greaney, his second writing credit for the series, after "Mrs. California".[2][3] The episode was also directed by Matt Sohn, his seventh directorial effort for the series, following the ninth season entry, "Roy's Wedding".[3] The episode features the return of series regular Clark Duke, having previously left for several episodes in order to film Kick-Ass 2.[4] The episode is the fourth not to feature Andy Bernard (Ed Helms). Helms left the series temporarily, in the season's sixth episode, "The Boat", in order to film The Hangover Part III.[5]
The official website of The Office included several cut scenes from "Suit Warehouse" within a week of the episode's release. In the first 64-second clip, more scenes of the effect of the espresso machine are seen and the increased productivity from the Scranton branch.[6] In the second 47-second clip, Erin grows ecstatic when the pens are finally delivered.[7] In the third 80-second clip, the Scranton branch gets distracted on their smartphones.[8]
When Oscar gets excited about drinking all the types of espresso, he shouts "YOLO", a carpe diem-esque phrase popularized by the song "The Motto" by Canadian rapper Drake.[9] Pam calls Jim "Gumby with hair" to calm down a nervous Darryl; this is a reference to the green clay humanoid character created and modeled by Art Clokey, who also created Davey and Goliath.[10] Both Pam and Darryl marvel at how Jim has managed to "Zuckerberg" his new office, a reference to Mark Zuckerberg, the American programmer and internet entrepreneur, who founded Facebook.[10]
"Suit Warehouse" originally aired on NBC on January 17, 2013.[1] In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by 4.15 million viewers and received a 2.1 rating/5 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[11] This means that it was seen by 2.1 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 5 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The Office ranked second in its timeslot, being beaten by an episode of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.0 rating/8% share.[11] In addition, The Office was the highest-rated NBC television program on the night it aired.[11]
IGN writer Cindy White criticized the espresso subplot and the episode in general, for the lack of authority in the office, due to Jim, Andy and Pam leaving the office. She also called the plot too similar to the season five episode, "Cafe Disco". She complimented the use of the ensemble players throughout the plot and praised the Dwight-Clark storyline, comparing it positively to the season three episode, "Traveling Salesmen". She also compared the Jim-Darryl-Pam storyline to the style of the early seasons, writing that it "was the stuff of classic Office, making you cringe as you are forced watch someone digging a hole deeper and deeper for himself". She gave the episode a 7.5/10, calling it "Good".[9] Damon Houx of Screen Crush called the episode "solid" and praised the use of the whole ensemble cast. He also complimented the build-up towards a future conflict between Jim and Pam, and said that while he is "still waiting for the show to hit the gravitational pull of wrapping up" and that the show "probably should have ended three years ago", the episode was still good.[12] New York writer Michael Tedder wrote that the episode had a nice balance of cringe humor, particularly in Darryl's job interview for Athlead. He also praised the set-up for the Dwight-Clark subplot, saying that the plotline was perfect for their dynamic and could not work with previous seasons. He was also complimentary towards the espresso subplot and gave the episode four out of five stars.[10]



"Here Comes Treble" is the fifth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office. The episode originally aired on NBC on October 25, 2012. It guest stars Stephen Colbert as Andy's college friend Broccoli Rob and Ben Silverman as an investor.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) invites his old college a cappella group, Here Comes Treble, to perform for the office during Halloween. Andy, however, gets angry when he hears that his college friend Broccoli Rob (Colbert) is telling a different story about the group. Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), with the help of Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) tries to track down a person who is using prescription anxiety pills. Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) fight over his new job.
The title is a reference to Andy's college a cappella group, which had previously been alluded to in the series, but never actually shown. The episode also marked the final Halloween installment for the series. "Here Comes Treble" received mixed reviews from television critics, with many mainly criticizing Andy's characterization. Others were more complimentary of the episode's subplots. "Here Comes Treble" was viewed by 4 million viewers and received a 1.9/5 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking third in its timeslot. The episode, however, ranked as the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
It is Halloween, and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) invites the latest roster of his Cornell University a cappella group, Here Comes Treble (portrayed by the University of Virginia Hullabahoos), to perform for the office during the Halloween party. He secretly hopes the group will ask him to lead them in a performance of George Michael's "Faith". He becomes increasingly frustrated when the group is not interested in talking about his glory days as part of the group, and upon learning that old bandmate Broccoli Rob (Stephen Colbert) claimed Andy's nickname of "Boner Champ", Andy complains to both Rob, via video chat, and to Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper). Though Erin sees the situation as trivial, she nonetheless demands that the group sing "Faith" for Andy.
For his new job, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) meets with investors. Although the investing window had closed, Jim insists on taking part and offers $10,000 under pressure—much more than he and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) had agreed to. After Jim returns, he tells Pam during the Here Comes Treble's performance, and they start arguing during the singing. When the group begins performing "Faith", Andy is surprised that Rob appears via video to sing the lead. The group mistakenly thought the song was to be dedicated to Andy, and they contacted Rob to sing it with them. The "concert" ends and Andy continues to argue with Rob as Rob halfheartedly apologizes for stealing Andy's song until Erin finally puts an end to the video chat. Andy entertains the idea of moving to Cornell to keep his legacy alive. Alarmed, Erin redirects him towards using his family's money to create a scholarship for young a cappella singers. When he calls his mother to set it up, she informs him the family has lost all their money.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) finds an anti-anxiety pill on the floor and begins a search for the office "madman". Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) admits that the pill belongs to her; she explains that she doesn't want Dwight to find out, as she once saw him yell at Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) for "sneezing incorrectly." Nellie partners with him in the investigation in order to escape his suspicions, but ultimately confesses that the pill belongs to her. Having been experiencing anxiety himself from work and taking care of his cousin Mose, Dwight asks Nellie to share some pills with him, but pretends that they are for Mose. At the end of the episode, Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) is shown secretly kissing Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey)'s husband Senator Lipton (Jack Coleman).
Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) dresses up as Toby as her Halloween costume. Toby notices this and becomes flattered, growing feelings for Nellie. He then gives Nellie a bouquet of flowers but is ultimately rejected and fills with anger.
"Here Comes Treble" was written by supervising producer Owen Ellickson, marking his third writing credit for the series, after the eighth season episodes "Pool Party" and  "Fundraiser".[3][4] The episode was directed by Claire Scanlon, who has served as an editor on the series for several seasons, this was her second directing credit after the eighth season episode, "Angry Andy".[5]
The title is a reference to Andy's a cappella group Here Comes Treble, which had previously been alluded to in the series, but never actually shown.[6] "Here Comes Treble" guest stars Stephen Colbert as Andy's college friend Broccoli Rob.[7] Former NBC Entertainment co-chairman Ben Silverman also guest stars as one of the investors who attends Jim's meeting.[8] With the filming of "Here Comes Treble", the cast began realizing that the show was truly approaching its end. Wilson said, "it's getting real. It's like there's a clock ticking".[6] Helms said that the fact that the episode was the last Halloween installment for the series is "a sad thing".[6]
The official website of The Office included three cut scenes from "Here Comes Treble" within a week of the episode's release. In the 146-second clip, Andy tells the office that the a cappella group is staying with Andy and Erin—Andy gets the basses and B-tones and Erin gets the tenors. In another scene, Andy throws a tantrum about his solo and his nickname. In the final shot, Andy gives the group nihilistic advice about the future before he sings "Faith".[9]
Due to the nature of the episode, many of the characters are dressed as cultural icons and characters from fiction. Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) is dressed as Scarlett Johansson's version of the superhero Black Widow from the 2012 superhero film The Avengers. Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) is dressed as Charlie Brown, the protagonist in the comic strip Peanuts by Charles M. Schulz.[6] Angela is dressed as former First Lady Nancy Reagan, with her husband State Senator Robert Lipton wearing a Ronald Reagan mask.[10] Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) is dressed as a dinosaur, but states that he is "the Electoral College".[8] Andy is dressed as George Michael.[8] For the episode, Wilson's character is dressed up as a pig. Wilson noted that the "writers really just wanted to torture me by having me in a pig's nose for an entire week of shooting".[6]
Due to the presence of the a cappella group, the episode features several songs. The group sings the Rose Royce 1976 single "Car Wash", the 1983 Culture Club song "Karma Chameleon", and Edwin McCain's 1998 hit "I'll Be".[11] The group also sings Cornell's alma mater.[12] Pam and Jim later get in an argument about the 1962 novelty song "The Monster Mash".[10] During their Skype-argument Broccoli Rob mentions that he collaborated with Trey Anastasio, the frontman for the jam band Phish. During the seventh season episode "The Sting", Andy mentioned that Broccoli Rob and Anastasio had collaborated on a song together.[13]
"Here Comes Treble" originally aired on NBC on October 25, 2012.[14] The episode was viewed by 4 million viewers and received a 1.9 rating/5% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[15] This means that it was seen by 1.9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 5 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This made "Here Comes Treble", at the time of its airing, the lowest-rated episode of The Office, beating the eighth season entry "Fundraiser", which was viewed by 4.17 million viewers.[16] The Office finished third in its time slot, being beaten by an episode of the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) series Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.0/8 percent rating and an entry of the CBS drama Person of Interest, which received a 2.9/8 percent rating[15] Despite this, The Office was the highest-rated NBC television program of the night.[15]
The episode received mixed reviews from critics. Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B−". He criticized the characterization of Andy and said that the character had "hit a plateau when his fist went through that wall in season three" and represented "a grinning puppet who can be imbued with some of Michael Scott's leftover tics and remind people he went to Cornell". However, Adams enjoyed the episode's subplots and wrote that the episode really "gave me a better picture of what makes Andy's girlfriend tick." Furthermore, he praised many of her lines and her acting ability.[8] Damon Houx of ScreenCrush said that the episode was a "surprisingly strong Erin episode" and that "Dwight acting crazy was also well used".[17] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode three-and-a-half stars out of five and called it "a nice enough holiday episode". He was critical of the episode's Jim and Pam subplot, saying that it could have "been left on the cutting room floor."[18] IGN reviewer Cindy White awarded the episode a 7.9 rating, denoting a "good" episode. She wrote that while the story had its limitations, "Little lines and bits ... helped elevate 'Here Comes Treble'".[19]
Michael Tedder of New York felt that the main story was weak and that the "plot line might have made more sense last year, with Andy trying to take his mind off troubles with Erin or Robert California by trying to regress to his college days without it working, but these days Andy is the boss and has the girl." He did, however, compliment the appearance of Colbert, writing that "it was still nice to see the two Daily Show alums sparring again." He was also complimentary towards the "little tidbits", such as Dwight's subplot.[10] Bonnie Stiergnberg of Paste felt that the episode was too rushed and that the storylines did not have a chance to naturally play out. She wrote that, "Each thread provided some interesting character development or set up future storylines, but, crammed together in the same 21 minutes, they made for a slightly disjointed-feeling episode."[12] WhatCulture! reviewer Joseph Kratzer gave the episode two-and-a-half stars out of five and called it the "first dud of the ninth season". He criticized the story, saying that "the plot's failure [is due to the fact that] the goal of the story was not met by the means the writers chose to employ; there was no sense of grand scope or deep-rooted history, just Andy being petty and refusing to let go of the past as he's challenged by his old friend." Kratzer called Dwight and Nellie's subplot the "most successful story" in the episode.[20]
The manner in which Stephen Colbert appeared received mixed reviews. Adams compared Colbert's cameo to former lead actor Steve Carell's appearance in the first series of the BBC Two sitcom Life's Too Short, calling it "an unfortunate echo".[8] White wrote that his cameo was not "quite the sublime experience I was hoping for" largely due to the amount of anticipation that was put into his appearance.[19] Kratzer called the underuse of Colbert "borderline criminal".[20]


"The Chump" is the twenty-fifth and penultimate episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 125th episode overall. It originally aired on May 13, 2010 on NBC in the United States.
In the episode, Michael is surprisingly cheerful after learning his girlfriend is married. The new parents, Pam and Jim, have trouble staying awake in the office. Meanwhile, Angela takes matters into her own hands when Dwight refuses to honor their prenatal contract.[1]
It was written by Aaron Shure and was directed by Randall Einhorn.[2] The episode has received mixed reviews from critics and was viewed by 6.604 million viewers.
The entire office braces for the fallout of Michael Scott (Steve Carell) learning about his girlfriend Donna's (Amy Pietz) infidelity, but surprisingly, Michael is as cheerful as usual. The office deduces that Michael is secretly still seeing Donna. When they confront him about this, Michael becomes defensive and refuses to cut off the adulterous relationship. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), having been in the situation of the cuckold when Angela was cheating on him with Dwight, decides to step up and make Michael confront his girlfriend's husband. They both go visit him while he is coaching a high school baseball team, and Andy gets the two of them to talk.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) are working out the baby contract they signed a few months earlier. Instead of going to court, they have asked a mediator to sort out the issues. After pushing through the contract line for line, which include several bizarre clauses such as one that stipulates "whether this is all part of the Matrix", the mediator determines that the contract is solid but unenforceable. Instead, Angela could sue Dwight for damages up to $30,000 for breach of contract. Knowing that Dwight could never pay her damages, she offers him a "settlement": five separate sessions of intercourse. He accepts. Later, Dwight carries out various methods to try to sterilize himself before the first "session", such as holding his crotch near a running microwave, dropping books on it, and aggressively beating it with drumsticks.
Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) are both exhausted from the long nights with the new baby, and their work is being adversely affected. Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) catches them both sleeping at their desks and talks to them privately about it. He asks them what they would do about the rumors of printers catching fire, but they both nearly fall asleep listening to him. Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) hears them discussing how to get enough energy to make it through the day, and lets them in on a secret sleeping place in the warehouse they can use. Unfortunately for them, this secret location is within earshot of Dwight and Angela's "warehouse meeting" place, where Angela complains about the damage to Dwight's testicles while Dwight gripes about having to perform foreplay.
After returning from the baseball game, Michael expresses a sense of freedom and power from the knowledge that he is having sex with another man's wife. Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) tries the same attitude and petitions Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) for sex, but cannot hold through and says he was just joking. He explains to Michael that to do what he is doing, one has to be completely cold and uncaring of what other people think, and that he does not know how Michael can do it. The rest of the office increasingly shuns Michael. He leaves to secretly meet Donna at a motel for sex, but on the way there has a change of heart and breaks up with her via text message instead. He consoles himself, alone, with his favorite ice cream, and tells the camera crew that he chose being able to live with himself over being happy.
At the end of the episode, Michael is ambushed by WBRE-TV reporters, to whom he begins to confess the adulterous rumours to, before they clarify that they were inquiring about the rumors of Sabre printers catching fire.
The episode was written by Aaron Shure, his second writing credit of the season after "The Meeting." It was directed by Randall Einhorn, his fourth episode of the season and twelfth in the series overall.[2] After the episode aired NBC posted three deleted scenes on its website.[3]
When Michael is confronted from his employees about continuing his relationship with Donna even after he knows she's married, he declares a "moment of silence" in honor of Michael Jackson to shut them up. Creed says his favorite movie starring James McAvoy was Wanted.[4] When Andy and Michael have a conversation of Michael's affair they reference the 2009 film, Obsessed (which was about an affair) with Andy referring to himself as Beyoncé and Michael as Ali Larter (the movie also starred Idris Elba, who had appeared in a few episodes of "The Office").[4] Michael calls Stanley, "Morgan Freeman, narrating everything."[4] When Michael asserts that he is going to eat anything he wants, when he wants, Kevin replies, "That's a dangerous game, Friendo," probably alluding to the movie No Country for Old Men.
The characters on the show make reference to a fictional video game title, Rock Band: Billy Joel, to which Darren Franich of Entertainment Weekly said "let’s hope never actually exists ever".[4] Billy Joel, in response, sought to authorize the use of his songs with the actual Rock Band series as a means to snub Franich's comment.[5]
In its original American broadcast, "The Chump" was viewed by 6.60 million viewers with a 3.4 rating/10% share in the 18–49 demographic going down 3% from "The Cover-Up".[6] The episode came second in its timeslot after Grey's Anatomy.[7] The episode ranked 17th in the weekly 18–49 ratings.[8]
Cindy White of IGN gave the episode a 7.5 saying it was "Good" and "The show is at its best when it mixes the business aspects of the office setting with the character's personal lives. Too much focus on one or the other can be a drag, and this episode suffered a bit for it."[9] Joel Keller of TV Squad said that Michael's character was too inconsistent throughout the episode.[10] Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club gave the episode a B+ and wrote that the episode was too unrealistic like previous episodes. Rabin said Michael was too much of a jerk although he noted that "if the episode came up short in the likability and realism department it was nevertheless funny and full of great little character moments, like the dreamy, faraway look Darryl gets while describing the warehouse employee’s secret napping spot or Ryan’s response to Michael's new gung-ho, take-charge personality."[11] Alan Sepinwall gave the episode a negative review, stating that the opening scene (where Michael was his usual nasty self towards Toby Flenderson and the rest of the office mostly supported Michael behaving that way) was not plausible, Michael's behavior as a cuckold was not enjoyable, and the Angela-Dwight "procreation contract" story was ridiculous.
Darren Franich of Entertainment Weekly loved the fact that Pam Beesly had been featured more on the show. He remarked on the ending that "Coming at the end of a mostly light episode, that was a heavy line. Nice payoff, Office."[4] Neil Turitz of TV Guide remarked "One of the funnier episodes of late, especially the montage of Dwight continually causing himself great pain in the crotch area. Low humor, perhaps, but still funny."[12] Will Leitch of New York said "All in all, this penultimate episode took care of Michael, Dwight, and every other lingering thread from a meandering season except for the big one, in a very funny last-scene reveal."[13]

Lee Eisenberg (born April 5, 1977) is an American film and television writer and producer. He usually works with Gene Stupnitsky, with whom he founded Quantity Entertainment.
Eisenberg was born in Needham, Massachusetts. His father is an immigrant from Israel.[1] He graduated from Connecticut College in 1999, after which he wrote the independent short film "Flush," and was once a contestant on the game show Pyramid.
In 2005, Eisenberg and Stupnitsky joined the staff of the NBC comedy series The Office, where they remained from seasons 2 to 6. In addition to writing, he served as a co-executive producer and directed two episodes with Stupnitsky, "Michael Scott Paper Company" and "The Lover". Although he is not credited for directing "Michael Scott Paper Company", similarly Stupnitsky is not credited for directing "The Lover", as only one person can be credited with directing the episode. They also directed The Outburst, a webisode series for The Office. He also acted as one of the Vance Refrigeration delivery guys (Gino), along with Stupnitsky, present in several episodes of The Office.
In 2013, Eisenberg and Stupnitsky had a busy year in television, and were listed as two of Deadline Hollywood's "Overachievers" of pilot season. Along with Stephen Merchant, they created, executive produced, and wrote for the HBO series Hello Ladies, which ran for one season and concluded with a feature-length special. That same year, they wrote a pilot for ABC based on the popular BBC series Pulling, in addition to serving as executive producers on the series Trophy Wife on ABC. They also executive produced the series Bad Teacher for CBS, which is based on their original screenplay. 
Eisenberg and Stupnitsky have worked together on several screenplays, many of which they have produced as well. Along with Harold Ramis, they wrote the screenplay for Year One, which starred Jack Black and Michael Cera, and was released in 2009. Following that, they wrote and produced the film Bad Teacher, which starred Cameron Diaz and Justin Timberlake. They were to serve as producers of a proposed sequel.
Eisenberg and Stupnitsky wrote a screenplay for Ghostbusters III that was not used for the franchise. The duo also wrote the screenplay for Good Boys, which was released in 2019.[2][3][4]
Film
Television


"Back from Vacation" is the twelfth episode of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 40th episode overall. It first aired on January 4, 2007, on NBC, and it was the first episode to air after the December holiday hiatus. "Back from Vacation" was the first script written by Justin Spitzer for the series. Julian Farino served as the episode director.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company.  In this episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) returns from his vacation in Jamaica and has a luau in the warehouse to celebrate. It is revealed that he went to Jamaica with Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) when a racy photograph of him and Jan is circulated. Meanwhile, Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) have an argument over Karen's living situation, leading to Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) offering him advice.
According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was watched by an estimated 8.80 million viewers. Among the 18–49 demographic, it earned a 4.3/11 ratings share and helped NBC finish in first place for the night. "Back from Vacation" received praise from critics, with Carell's performance receiving positive attention in particular.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) returns from his Jamaican vacation rejuvenated, and directs the Party Planning Committee to throw a luau-themed party in the warehouse to accompany the annual inventory. When Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) notices Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) in the margins of a photo from Michael's vacation, he admits to the documentary crew that he and Jan went to Jamaica together.
Michael attempts to send another vacation photograph to Todd Packer (David Koechner) as proof of the trip, but mistakenly chooses "Packaging" instead of "Packer" from the address menu, sending the photograph to the entire shipping warehouse, including Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), the warehouse supervisor. The photo is quickly forwarded throughout the office and beyond. Michael enlists Dwight Schrute's (Rainn Wilson) assistance in preventing its spread, but these efforts are largely ineffective.
Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) has been upset with Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) because he expressed objections to the prospect of Karen moving into an apartment two blocks from his own. Pam convinces Jim that he is being unreasonable, and Jim accepts her advice and apologizes to Karen. Pam tells the documentary crew that she was glad to help Jim, but is then shown later to be crying in private, secretly in love with him and heartbroken over the fact that he is with Karen instead. Dwight walks in on her crying. He awkwardly attempts to console her, although he misunderstands: "So, you're PMSing pretty bad, huh?"
During the luau/inventory, Jan arrives at the office to speak with Michael in private. Michael is terrified that Jan is there to confront him over the widely spread photo, but she appears to be unaware of it, instead confessing her attraction to him against all reason and kissing him.
"Back from Vacation" was written by Justin Spitzer,[3] a staff writer who joined The Office in its third season.[4] The episode was his first script for the series.[5] Spitzer found Jan's final scene with Michael – in which he expects she will yell at him for their circulated picture but instead informs him they are staying together – especially tricky to write. Spitzer was unsure how to craft the scene, and eventually requested advice from the other series' writers. They decided that Jan would give a "psychobabble" response to Michael. Sitting on a panel of television writers at Northwestern University, Spitzer briefly described her reasoning, "Jan’s nuts. She has some bad psychiatrist giving her bad advice."[6] He praised the benefits of a "good writers room," in which "scenes go to this place you never could have gone to alone."[6]
"Back from Vacation" was directed by Julian Farino,[3] who later was responsible for directing "The Deposition", a fourth season episode that featured some of the ramifications of Michael's circulated picture.[7] Recurring actors Creed Bratton, Ed Helms, Rashida Jones, Craig Robinson, and David Koechner appeared as guest stars in "Back from Vacation".[3][8] This was the final episode to feature background character Louanne.
The season three DVD contains a number of deleted scenes, such as Michael arriving from Jamaica at the airport, wearing warm-weather clothes, Dwight, Meredith, Angela and Kevin separately reacting to the news that Michael took Jan to Jamaica, and Jan maintaining the ruse that she was in Scottsdale while talking to a coworker at Corporate, who is viewing the photo on his computer. Additional scenes include Dwight complaining about Jim's pranks while Michael was on vacation, Roy helping Ryan with inventory, Andy challenging Dwight to a box-stacking race, and Meredith climbing on a shelf, which falls and traps her.[9]
"Back from Vacation" first aired on January 4, 2007 in the United States on NBC. It was the first episode of the season to air after the end of the December holiday break.[10][11] According to Nielsen Media Research, an estimated 8.80 million viewers watched the episode. It earned a 4.3/11 ratings share among adults aged 18 to 49, meaning that it was seen by 4.3 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of broadcast. The Office and its lead-in show, My Name Is Earl, helped NBC finish in first place for the night in that demographic.[12]
The episode attracted positive reviews from critics. Brian Zoromski of IGN rated "Back from Vacation" 9.7/10, an indication of an "amazing" episode. Stated highlights included the opening sequence, Carell's performance, and Pam's storyline with Jim and Karen. Zoromski concluded in his review that "with so much attention to detail, realistic character reactions, and very few completely over-the-top comedy moments, 'Back from Vacation' is one of the best Office episodes yet this season. We're very glad they're back."[10] AOL TV's Michael Sciannamea expressed surprise that Jan accompanied Michael on his vacation and immediately wanted to discover more about their relationship. He was also intrigued with Dwight's attempt to cheer up Pam, until the PMS joke when he thought it "would have been very interesting if Dwight had been a real comfort to her and offered his friendship."[11] Sciannamea concluded that "this was just a terrific episode. Well written, well acted, and had you begging for more at the end. What more can you ask for?"[11]
Writing for Entertainment Weekly, Abby West focused on Carell's acting, explaining that "the way that Michael's desire to boast and his healthy fear of offending Jan played out on Steve Carell's face was fantastic. From his braggadocio on the phone with Todd Packer (Packer!) to his death march up the stairs to face Jan, it was a thing of beauty."[13] BuddyTV's Oscar Dahl believed that "Back from Vacation" was "one of the two or three best of the season", opining that "simplicity" was the key to the series' success. Dahl continued, "Each episode's premise can be entirely mundane and inconsequential. It will still mine laughs from the situation at hand. We also had some nice development in the Jim-Pam-Karen triangle, with Pam giving Jim relationship advice, then bawling her eyes out afterwards. Maybe the best scene in the episode saw Dwight comfort her."[14] Television Without Pity graded the episode with an A.[15]


"Christmas Wishes" is the tenth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 162nd episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on December 8, 2011. It was written by executive producer Mindy Kaling and was directed by Ed Helms in his directorial debut. The episode guest starred Lindsey Broad, Ameenah Kaplan, and Eleanor Seigler.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) attempts to "make everyone's Christmas wishes come true", including those of a drunken Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper). Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) are entangled in a prank war in which each tries to frame the other.
"Christmas Wishes" received mostly positive reviews from critics. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Christmas Wishes" drew 5.79 million viewers and received a 2.9 rating/8% share in the 18–49 demographic, staying even with the previous two episodes, "Gettysburg" and "Mrs. California." It ranked first in its timeslot, and was the highest ranked NBC series of the night.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) attempts to "make everyone's Christmas wishes come true". At a conference meeting, he vows to keep his promise to make wishes and asks the office members to also be nice to his new girlfriend Jessica (Eleanor Seigler). An emotionally confused Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) tries to be nice to Jessica, but ends up drinking too much at the party. Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) does her part as a friend of Erin's by being mean to Jessica, by accusing her of flatulating in public. In a drunken stupor, Erin tells Andy that her Christmas wish is for Jessica to die. Offended, he tells her to get over their breakup before storming off.
Andy becomes concerned about Erin's behavior, not least because Robert California (James Spader) has revealed that his marriage is ending, greatly desires sex, and spends a good deal of the party hanging out with Erin and pressures her into drinking shots. When Andy has to drive a drunken Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) home, he sees Erin getting into Robert's car and he follows them with a look of panic on his face. However, he covertly witnesses Robert being a gentleman and sending Erin off to her apartment with a hug and words of encouragement. Andy subsequently drives away with a wistful smile on his face.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) pranking has caused Cathy Simms (Lindsey Broad) to ask Andy to move her to a different desk. In turn, Andy orders Dwight and Jim to quit their childish behavior. He tells them that the next one to pull a prank will lose their Christmas bonus, and the target of the prank will get the prankster's share. Wanting to double their bonuses, both Dwight and Jim attempt to frame the other. Jim loudly releases his credit card information hoping Dwight will steal it and buy something ridiculous. However, Dwight orders a $200 bouquet of flowers for Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer). Dwight then puts a porcupine in his desk and blames Jim. However, Jim tricks Dwight into stating the porcupine's name (Henrietta), causing him to inadvertently reveal his intentions. Jim, in retaliation, defaces a picture of his daughter Cece, and blames Dwight. After Andy says such vandalism is grounds for termination, Jim admits he staged the crime. Acknowledging that his plan has backfired, Andy tells Jim that he will not touch their bonuses, and just wants their behavior to not interfere with their job performances. Jim assures him he will tell Dwight, but purposefully neglects to do so. Dwight thus continues to pull pranks on himself, to Jim's amusement.
The episode was written by executive producer Mindy Kaling, who also portrays Kelly Kapoor on the series, her 24th writing credit for the series. This marks her first writing credit as an executive producer.[2] Before this, it was speculated that she might not return to the series as a writer,[3] before she confirmed that she would be writing the Christmas episode.[4] She has also written the previous two Christmas episodes: "Secret Santa" and "Classy Christmas".[5][6] The episode was directed by cast member Ed Helms, making his directorial debut. The episode also marks the fourth appearance of Lindsey Broad who plays Cathy, Pam's replacement during her maternity leave.[7] She appeared in a recurring role for the season and she initially appeared in "Pam's Replacement".[7] Due to Jenna Fischer's actual pregnancy, Pam did not appear in the episode.[8] The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include shoots of several of the staff members’ Christmas wishes being revealed, Dwight and Jim's pranks start turning on Cathy, and Meredith hitting on a newly single Robert.[9]
Midway through the party, Dwight enters the conference room and sets up his own speaker system to play "Christmas Eve/Sarajevo 12/24", a heavy metal medley of traditional Christmas songs performed by Savatage and the Trans-Siberian Orchestra. The song acts as a backdrop to a brief montage of various scenes of members of the office exchanging gifts while shots of Dwight, Nate, Creed, and Gabe air-guitaring along are interspersed.[10]
"Christmas Wishes" originally aired on NBC in the United States on December 8, 2011.[1] The episode was viewed by an estimated 5.79 million viewers and received a 2.9 rating/8% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[11] This means that it was seen by 2.9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 8% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode matched the ratings with the previous episode, "Mrs. California."[11] Despite this, the episode ranked first in its timeslot, beating CBS drama Person of Interest which received a 2.8 rating/7% share in the 18–49 demographic, Fox drama series Bones which received a 2.4 rating/6% share, and ABC reality series America's Funniest Home Videos which received a 1.9 rating/5% share.[11] Despite place third, all three of these shows received more total viewers than "Christmas Wishes".[11] For the week of November 5 – December 11, 2011, "Christmas Wishes" placed twenty-third in the ratings among all prime-time broadcasts in the 18–49 demographic.[12]
"Christmas Wishes" received mostly positive reviews from critics. Hollywood.com writer Hannah Lawrence enjoyed the episode, writing, "as an episode, ['Christmas Wishes'] had that certain… 'spirit' that I enjoy from Office episodes."[13] She also complimented the Erin-Andy relationship arc.[13] IGN writer Cindy White, although noting that the episode "had some big obstacles to overcome" with the absences of both Michael Scott and Pam Halpert," concluded that the episode had a "high rewatch factor."[14] She wrote, "If my Christmas wish was to watch an episode of The Office that made me laugh a lot, consider that wish granted."[14] She ultimately gave the episode 8.0/10.[14] M. Giant of Television Without Pity gave the episode a "B+".[10] Margaret Lyons from New York wrote a mostly positively review, saying "'Christmas Wishes' filled me with holiday cheer, proving that there's still some juice left in this show," before noting that "There are still some issues left, too, though."[15] What Culture! reviewer Joseph Kratzer praised Mindy Kaling and Ed Helms' writing and directing work, and said, "If this is what happens when cast members... take the reins then the writing and directing duties should be kept in house much more often."[16]
The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt wrote a slightly more critical review, noting the episode's lack of structure.[17] He wrote that "['Christmas Wishes'] is not a terrible episode of television, but it's formless to the point where it avoids having to make any sort of statement."[17] He did, however, positively comment on the Andy and Erin subplot and suggested that the episode was "positioned as a transition point," featuring an Andy-Erin-Jessica love triangle and a darker Robert California.[17] He ultimately gave the episode a "B−".[17] Many reviews considered "Christmas Wishes" to be the best episode of the first part of the season.[16][18]

"Paper Airplane" is the twentieth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office. It originally aired on NBC on April 25, 2013. The episode features guest stars Roseanne Barr, Nora Kirkpatrick, Mark Proksch, Blake Robbins, and Bobby Ray Shafer. It was also the final half-hour episode of the series, being the fourth-to-last episode aired.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, the office staff compete against each other in a paper airplane contest. Meanwhile, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) prepares for a potential acting job, and Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) utilize new skills that they learned in couples' counseling.
The episode received mostly mixed reviews from critics; some felt that the episode was humorous, whereas others were critical of the main plot involving Pam and Jim. The episode was viewed by 3.25 million viewers and received a 1.7/5 rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, giving it the lowest viewership rating of any episode of The Office. "Paper Airplane" ranked fourth in its timeslot, but was nevertheless the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
A paper airplane contest is being hosted at Dunder Mifflin by a new paper supplier. All of the office workers compete against each other for a $2,000 prize. Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) in particular is fiercely competitive, and even as she realizes that she is showing an ugly side of herself to her boyfriend Pete Miller (Jake Lacy), she cannot hold back from smashing a box of packing peanuts when she loses in the semi-finals. After several intense rounds, it comes down to Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey). Dwight, who is dating Esther (Nora Kirkpatrick), tries to throw the contest. Angela is flattered by the gesture. However, when Esther expresses her condolences to Angela about her financial situation since her husband separated from her, she realizes that Dwight is letting her win out of pity, not love. Angered, she rebuffs Dwight's pity and lets him win the contest.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) prepares for an acting job in a laboratory safety video that was arranged by his talent agent, Carla Fern (Roseanne Barr). The directors continuously have to talk him out of overacting, and he backs down from shooting a scene using an eye wash, since he has an aversion towards anything being shot into his eye. However, Carla threatens to have him blacklisted if he does not go through with the scene. Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), who came along as friendly support, gives Andy the confidence to shoot the scene, and in the end Andy even insists on doing two takes, impressing Carla.
In couples' counseling, Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) have been told to express appreciation for the things their spouse does for them, be frank about things that make them unhappy, and refer to anything they do not want to do but must as “an opportunity”. Their exercising of these three habits is stiff and formal to begin with, and becomes increasingly snarky as the day goes on. Despite this, as Jim leaves the office to return to his business, he confesses to Pam that he thinks the three habits are helping and that they should keep them up. After he leaves, Pam runs after him to give him an umbrella. Jim takes the umbrella, and then embraces his wife, who finds that she lacks the emotional conviction to hug him back. It then flashbacks to their wedding with their co-workers present, she remembers that by marrying Jim she promised to love him in spite of any hardships, and she lovingly embraces him and kisses him.
"Paper Airplane" was written by co-executive producers Halsted Sullivan and Warren Lieberstein, marking their first writing credit for the season, as well as their first writing credit since season eight's "Turf War".[2][3] It was directed by first-time Office director, Jesse Peretz.[2] Comedian Roseanne Barr guest stars in this episode. It was announced on January 31, 2013 that she would be doing a two episode arc and would play a talent agent named Carla Fern. Barr began filming her scenes the week following January 31.[4] She first appeared in the previous episode, "Stairmageddon".
The episode features both archival footage—as well as new footage—of Pam and Jim's wedding from the sixth-season episode "Niagara". In order to get a shot of Pam and Jim looking into the camera, Greg Daniels restaged the scene four years after "Niagara" had been filmed. Daniels noted, "To get Jim and Pam's eye line right for the camera, I stepped in as the minister [when the camera was facing them] so they were both looking at me with the full actor-power of all the emotions they were supposed to be feeling at their own wedding, just blasting in my face. I got chills and a fever."[5]
Dwight refers to the new paper as the "Cadillac of paper". Andy notes that if he is successful in his industrial film, he could potentially land a role in the movie Moneyballs 2, a sequel to the 2011 film Moneyball starring Brad Pitt. When told to act like he is doing a newscast, Andy does a Tom Brokaw impersonation.[6] Andy also says that if necessary he will go all-nude for the role in a "full-on Lena Dunham", a reference to her skit at the 64th Primetime Emmy Awards.[2] Darryl tells Andy that he was in a production of The Wiz in high school. Kevin mistakes Orville and Wilbur Wright—the credited inventors of the airplane—for "Wilbur and Orville Redenbacher"—a brand of popcorn.[6] In the last scene, when Jim and Pam resolve their differences, the cut-scene shows Jim's brother Tom reading 1 Corinthians 13:7–13 from the Bible.[6][7]
"Paper Airplane" originally aired on April 25, 2013 on NBC.[1] In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by an estimated 3.25 million viewers and received a 1.7 rating/5 percent share. At 3.25 million viewers, it is the lowest rated episode of the series to ever air.[8] This means that it was seen by 1.7 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 5 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a decrease in the ratings from the previous episode, "Stairmageddon".[9] The Office ranked fourth in its timeslot, being beaten by an episode of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which scored a 2.7/7 rating, an entry of the CBS series Person of Interest which garnered a 2.4/7 rating, and installment of the Fox series Glee which received a 1.8/5 rating.[8] When DVR numbers were included, the episode was watched by 4.956 million viewers and increased its ratings up 65 percent to a 2.8, meaning it was seen by, in total, 2.8 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds.[10]
Roth Cornet of IGN awarded the episode an 8.5 out of 10, denoting a "great" episode. She praised the final scene, and said that Pam's decision was "a gorgeously simple emotional shift". She was complimentary towards the balance between characters and felt that "the rest of the episode was entertaining and well constructed, if not earth shatteringly hilarious."[11] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode four out of five stars, summarizing that "An otherwise funny episode of The Office, highlighted by Toby's awkwardness, Dwight's craziness and Kevin's pride, was held back by yet another trip down Pam and Jim's boring avenue of problems."[12]
Nick Campbell of TV.com gave the episode a more moderate review, writing that "The Jam story was probably the only bright spot for me in an episode generally devoid of chuckles", and that it was "not a terrible episode, but basic and a little boring." He was complimentary towards the conclusion of the Jim-Pam plot, noting that the final scene was "a warm moment", although he was surprised by the scene's placement in the season as a whole.[13] Alan Sepinwall of HitFix wrote positively of the finale scene, noting that "it really worked", and that Krasinski and Fischer were "terrific" during the sequence. However, he said that the "comedy parts of 'Paper Airplane' were so dire I'm not going to dwell on them at all".[14]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "C+" and felt that the finale scene, while set up to be emotional, was "hollow". He argued that the tension does not feel as threatening as it should; he compared it to the second season episode "Casino Night", which had invoked real fears about the future of Jim and Pam. He summed up: "I wish the final scene of 'Paper Airplane' made me feel something deeper." Adams also was not impressed with the Dwight-Angela storyline, but was "enjoying Andy's day on the industrial-safety film—much more so than anticipated" due to the "unintentional hilarity" that ensued.[15]
Roseanne Barr's performance was later submitted by the producers of The Office for an "Outstanding Guest Actor in Comedy Series" Emmy consideration.[16]



"The Deposition" is the twelfth episode of the fourth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's sixty-fifth episode overall. Written by consulting producer Lester Lewis and directed by Julian Farino, the episode originally aired in the United States on November 15, 2007, on NBC. "The Deposition" was the last original episode of the show to air before the show went on hiatus due to the 2007 Writers Guild of America strike.[1]
Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) and Michael Scott (Steve Carell) travel to New York City for the deposition of Jan's lawsuit against the company. While Michael originally intends to be a witness against the company, he ends up defending the company. Meanwhile, Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) talks smack to Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) after Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) beats Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) in a game of ping pong, prompting Jim to spend the entire day practicing in the conference room.
After his girlfriend Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) sues her former employer Dunder Mifflin for wrongful termination, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) finds himself forced by Jan to be a witness against his employer. Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) wants to make sure Michael will not say anything to harm Dunder Mifflin even though Michael is Jan's boyfriend. Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) comes along as the HR representative, against Michael's protests. The deposition goes well for Jan at first, as she claims that she was terminated due to discrimination over her breast augmentation. To counter evidence that she had a romantic relationship with Michael before they disclosed it to corporate, Jan submits Michael's personal diary, which she brought to the deposition without his knowledge or permission. Likewise, Michael had submitted the leaked topless photo of Jan which was circulated amongst the branch in Back from Vacation, unbeknownst to Jan, angering her. Michael gets further incensed against Jan when he learns that she gave him a scathing performance review after they had begun dating, claiming that he is unfit for his current position and should be demoted to sales. Michael learns he was never a contender when interviewing for Jan's former position at the corporate office, with the CFO insisting repeatedly that he is a nice guy, but ultimately unsuited for the position. Michael defends the company anyway, later stating that "you expect to get screwed by your company, but you never expect to get screwed by your girlfriend." Jan and Michael drive home, clearly angry at each other over the events of the day. 
Back at the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of Dunder Mifflin, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) repeatedly loses to warehouse foreman Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) at ping pong, prompting Darryl's girlfriend Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) to gloat to Jim's girlfriend Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) over her boyfriend's superior skills. Unable to tolerate Kelly's trash-talk, Pam builds a makeshift ping pong table in the conference room for Jim to practice against other office employees.  Throughout the day, Jim practices against his coworkers, eventually discovering Dwight Schrute's (Rainn Wilson) prowess at the game. When Jim and Darryl have a rematch, Jim again loses to Darryl. Fed up with Kelly's continued taunting, Pam challenges her to a game of ping pong, but the two play poorly. Jim and Darryl quickly get bored of watching them and decide to play ping pong in the conference room. The episode concludes with Dwight playing a high-intensity game of ping pong against his cousin Mose Schrute (Michael Schur), with the two at an apparent stalemate.
"The Deposition" was the first episode of The Office to be written by Lester Lewis.  Lewis also worked for the show as a consulting producer.  The episode was the second of the show to be directed by Julian Farino.  Farino also directed the third season episode "Back from Vacation".  "The Deposition" was the last original episode of The Office to air in 2007 due to the effects of the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike.[2][3] The Writers Guild of America (WGA) went on strike at 12:01 am Eastern Standard Time on November 5, 2007.[4][5] Filming of The Office immediately halted on that date, as Steve Carell, who is a member of the WGA, refused to cross WGA picket lines.[6]   Members of Writers Guild of America, East and Writers Guild of America, West voted to end the 100-day strike on February 12, 2008.[7] Writers were allowed to return to work on the same day.[8] The WGA allowed for show runners to return to work on February 11,[9] in preparation for the conclusion of the strike. The show runner for The Office, Executive Producer Greg Daniels, returned on February 11,[10] while the show's writers returned to work on February 13.[8] The Office finally returned with original episodes on April 10, 2008, with the episode "Dinner Party".
Executive producer and show runner Greg Daniels stated that one of the main purposes of "The Deposition" was to add on to the tension building between Michael and Jan.  This tension would finally end its build-up with the splitting of Michael and Jan in the episode "Dinner Party".[11] The scene where Michael pushes Toby's lunch tray off the table was not scripted. The crew was doing one last take of the scene and actor Paul Lieberstein suggested that Steve Carell push his food off the table.[12] The ping pong game between Dwight and Mose featured computer-generated imagery. Rainn Wilson and Michael Schur mimed the actions of a ping pong game, and during the stages of editing and post-production, the ping pong ball was added digitally.[13]
"The Deposition" received a 5.1 Nielsen rating and an 8% share. The episode was watched by 8.86 million viewers and achieved a 4.8/11 in the key adults 18 to 49 demographic, meaning that 4.8 percent of all people 18 to 49 watched the episode, and 11 percent of all people 18 to 49 watching television at the time watched the episode.[14]
Rick Porter of Zap2It.com praised the writing of the episode, as well as the acting of Mindy Kaling and Jenna Fischer.  Porter also praised the final scene of the episode, when Jan and Michael drive home after the day.  Porter stated "I don't know whether to laugh or turn away in shame from that final scene, though, as they bicker about what to eat while they're driving home. It was like watching two friends fight – fascinating and incredibly uncomfortable at the same time."[15]  Christine Fenno, of Entertainment Weekly, stated "'The Deposition' was a simmering slow cooker of corporate intrigue, flavored by Michael Scott's ridiculousness, with spicy smack talk on the side."  Fenno, like Porter, also praised the acting of Jenna Fischer, saying that she "stole the low-key opening scenes".[16]  Travis Fickett, of IGN, stated that "this happens to be the best episode of the season and one of the best episodes of the series. It's almost as if the writers planned it this way – to emphasize their importance and remind us how much we'll miss them when they're gone."  Fickett went on to praise the acting between Steve Carell (Michael) and Paul Lieberstein (Toby).[17] BuddyTV Senior Writer Oscar Dahl stated that the episode was an oddity among the series, saying "The Deposition" was an atypical episode of The Office, one that basically put the character of Michael Scott on trial and humiliated him over and over again."[18]


"Two Weeks" is the twenty-first episode of the fifth season of the television series The Office and the 93rd overall episode of the series. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on March 26, 2009. In this episode, Michael, who has given his two weeks' notice to Dunder Mifflin, tries to convince others in the office to quit and join him in starting a new paper company. Meanwhile, Pam spends her day trying to put together the new photocopier and becomes frustrated with her job.
The episode was written by Aaron Shure and directed by Paul Lieberstein. Executive story editor Charlie Grandy conceived the idea of Michael leaving Dunder Mifflin, and the writers collectively decided the Pam character should leave and try to find out what she wants from life. The episode included a guest appearance by Idris Elba, who played new Dunder Mifflin vice president Charles Miner. "Two Weeks" received generally positive reviews and, according to Nielsen ratings, was watched by 8.7 million overall viewers and was the top-rated show on NBC the week it aired. "Two Weeks" received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series.
Having submitted his two weeks' notice to Dunder Mifflin, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) begins goofing off and drinking around the office, while new company vice president Charles Miner (Idris Elba) plans to hire the new regional manager from the outside, for "obvious reasons." The employees suggest that Michael start looking for another job. Michael is unworried at first, until he learns how poorly the economy is performing. He first tries Prince Paper, but they had been run out of business by Dunder Mifflin. After finding no available work, Michael decides to start his own paper company and unsuccessfully tries to convince others around the office to join him. When Charles catches Michael labeling Dunder Mifflin customer lists with his new company's name, he orders security guard Hank (Hugh Dane) to escort Michael from the building. Charles cuts off Michael's attempt to deliver parting remarks to the office, forcing him to leave immediately. Michael drives out of the parking lot, but is later spotted sneaking back into the building.
The office has received a new copy machine, but it is not assembled, so Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) spends the day putting it together as the rest of the employees hassle and tease her. She finally completes assembling it, but feels no satisfaction about it afterward, and comes to realize how underutilized and underappreciated she is at her job. Meanwhile, Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) and Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) continue to flirt with Charles.
Michael sneaks back into the office, crawling on the floor below the desks so Charles, who is sitting in the conference room, will not notice him. Michael grabs his customer list and makes a final desperate offer for the other employees to join him. Charles notices Michael and physically threatens him, prompting Michael to leave without the customer list. After Charles angrily closes the conference room door, Pam follows Michael out of the building, announcing that she is leaving with him. However, she tells Michael she wants to be a salesperson at his new company, not a receptionist. Michael agrees, then asks Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) if he wants to come with them, but he declines. Pam and Michael leave together, feeling both exhilarated and apprehensive.
At the end of the episode, Charles, who still knows very little about the employees at the Scranton branch, decides to make Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) the temporary receptionist and make Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) the office's "Productivity Czar," much to the surprise of both men.
"Two Weeks" was written by Aaron Shure and directed by Paul Lieberstein. Executive story editor Charlie Grandy conceived the idea of Michael leaving Dunder Mifflin. Shure said there was a great deal of debate among the writers about Pam's decision to leave Dunder Mifflin with Michael, but they decided to move in that direction to demonstrate Pam was trying to figure out what she wants in life. Lieberstein thought of the idea of the final scene in which Michael and Pam's faces go from optimism to concern, because he felt it would anchor the episode. The decision to have Charles choose Stanley as productivity czar and Kevin as receptionist was made by Shure the day before the episode's draft was handed in because he wanted to have Charles make "rookie mistakes, despite all his poise."[1] "Two Weeks" was the second of six episodes guest starring Idris Elba, best known as Stringer Bell from The Wire. Elba said he did not watch the episode after it aired because "I'm hypercritical about my work, so I try not to torture myself."[2]
The official The Office website included three cut scenes from "Two Weeks" within a week of the episode's original release. In one minute-long clip, Michael asks Darryl for warehousing advice for his new paper company; Darryl gives Michael encouraging words about the new business venture before admitting, "I'm messing with you. This doesn't sound like a good idea."[3] In a second one-minute clip, Michael tries stealing office supplies from the Dunder Mifflin office for his new company, until he is caught by Charles, who literally chases him out of the office; Charles then tries to describe what Michael's like to the camera but finds himself shocked into silence.[4] In a final 38-second clip, Kelly visits Michael's office to ask what he will do with his life, then starts talking about her own fantasy of running off to Mexico with Charles.[5] B. J. Novak wrote a talking-head segment for Toby, where he compares Michael to a movie on a plane because "it's not great, but it's something to watch, and when it's over you're like, how much longer is this flight? Now what?"
An original draft for the episode included more dialogue between Pam and Jim about the decision, in which Pam brought up Jim's impulsive decision to buy his parents' house without consulting her in the episode "Frame Toby," but it was ultimately cut because they felt it added too much time to get to the resolution. A number of documentary-style interviews with Dwight about Michael's defection and his thoughts about Charles Miner were cut for length issues.[1]
Immediately after "Two Weeks" was first broadcast, NBC Universal's The Office website DunderMifflinInfinity.com sent mass e-mail messages said to be from "Michael Gary Scott" encouraging people to join his new company, "The Michael Scott Paper Company." The message, which included a link to the website, said "As the manager of Dunder Mifflin, Scranton I learned two things: everything about the paper business and that Dunder Mifflin is a suckee company. I’m taking that expertness and creating The Michael Scott Paper Company. … I cannot promise success, but I will promise you the best effing time of your life!!!"[6]
Michael accidentally visits a website about actual monsters when trying to visit Monster.com, a popular employment site.[7][8] During work, Michael drinks a combination of scotch and Splenda, an artificial sweetener; Michael had the same drink in the third season episode "Cocktails".[7] Michael tries to get a job with Prince Family Paper Company only to find they have gone out of business; this is a reference to "Prince Family Paper", an episode from earlier in the fifth season, in which Michael and Dwight go undercover at Prince Paper to learn their company secrets and steal their clients.[8] While flirting with Charles, Kelly said her family was so close they were like the Kardashians, a reference to the E! reality series, Keeping Up with the Kardashians.[9]
Several reviewers compared Pam's decision to quit with Michael to that of Renée Zellweger's character in the 1996 film Jerry Maguire,[7][9][10][11] and the final scene in which Michael and Pam go from excitement over their new company to concern about the future to the final moments of The Graduate.[12] Shure, who said he is a fan of the movie scene, said it was not directly inspired by the film, but he was "painfully aware of the inevitable comparison"; he said the writers considered having Michael refer to the movie in the episode, but dropped it due to time constraints. The line spoken by Oscar, "Just like that, as mysteriously as he arrived, he was gone" was written by Office writer Mindy Kaling and was inspired by the Keyser Söze character in the 1995 film, The Usual Suspects.[1]
In its original American broadcast on March 26, 2009, "Two Weeks" was watched by 8.7 million overall viewers,[13] and 5.8 million viewers among ages 18 to 49.[14] The episode had a 4.5 rating and 11 share in the 18 to 49 demographic, making it NBC's top-rated show the week it aired.[13]
"I sometimes worry that The Office doesn't hit its marks, either moving too far towards cringe or not far enough towards silliness, but last night's episode hit its emotional notes so squarely I wonder why I've ever doubted the show."
Margaret Lyons, Entertainment Weekly[9]"Two Weeks" received generally positive reviews. Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger praised the episode and specific elements of it, like Michael wandering around the office drunk and many of the documentary-style interviews, like Charles talking about his effect on women, Toby comparing Michael to a movie on a plane and Kevin being too lazy to compliment Michael in person. But he said the episode was "elevated" by Michael and Pam forming a partnership at the end: "Steve Carell and Jenna Fischer are always brilliant in those moments when they have to show multiple emotions at once, so it was nice to finally see them get to do it side-by-side."[12] Entertainment Weekly writer Margaret Lyons said "Two Weeks" offered a change that would keep the series fresh and, although she said it was "not a nonstop laugh riot", she said it "highlights what The Office does that few other shows ever even attempt: incredibly humane, subtle moments that contrast with the kind of chaos only ever borne of monotony."[9]
Brian Howard of The Journal News said the episode flowed well and he liked the payoff at the end when Pam joined Michael's new paper company, but he said the moments with Michael crawling on the floor felt like "unnecessary padding". Nevertheless, he said, "I'm looking forward to rewatching this episode, probably the first time I've done that since 'Lecture Circuit: Part I'".[7] Andy Shaw of TV Fodder said Michael was much more likable in "Two Weeks" than in other recent episodes, and said, "Steve Carell was at his best, with great throwaway lines and getting to the heart of Michael's love for Dunder-Mifflin and paper."[10] Will Leitch of New York magazine said the episode marked a "major step" for the series and had some particularly sweet moments between Michael and Pam. He also particularly liked the moment when Charles Miner, who is played by the same actor who played drug dealer Stringer Bell on the HBO series The Wire, threatened to attack Michael: "Michael Scott being beaten up by Stringer Bell. That's one for the TV annals."[15]
Rick Porter of Zap2it said the episode was "pretty good" and that Jenna Fischer was "fantastic", but he felt the episode was less outright funny than recent episodes. But Porter also said he had mixed feelings about Pam's decision to work for Michael and about the Charles Miner character, who he said might be too humorless and uncomfortable for the show.[11] Travis Fickett of IGN felt it was disappointing and slow-paced compared to last week's episode "New Boss": "Things slow down a bit as we sort of repeat the awkwardness between Michael and new regional manager Charles Miner. It feels a bit like the episode is marking time – which is exactly what Michael is doing with his final two weeks on the job."[16] "Two Weeks" was voted the eighteenth highest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 7.74 out of 10.[17]
Stuart Bass received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series. "Two Weeks" accounted for one of the ten Primetime Emmy Award nominations The Office received for the show's fifth season at the 61st Primetime Emmy Awards, which were held on September 20, 2009.[18]



"Halloween" is the fifth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's eleventh episode overall. It was written by executive producer and showrunner Greg Daniels and was directed by Paul Feig. The episode first aired on NBC in the United States on October 18, 2005. Guest stars in this episode included Devon Abner, Hugh Dane, George Gaus, Annabelle Kopack, Ava Nisbet and Alec Zbornak.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, the employees at Dunder Mifflin celebrate Halloween at the office. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) struggles with making the decision of whom to fire. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) post Dwight Schrute's (Rainn Wilson) resume on the internet.
Due to the Halloween concept of the episode, the cast members of The Office were allowed to wear costumes rather than their "usual, realistically plain suits". B. J. Novak, writer for the series as well as actor, called the experience "fun". The episode features the last on-screen appearance of the background character Devon until the series finale. The episode earned a Nielsen rating of 4.1 in the 18–49 demographic and was viewed by 8 million viewers.
Although informed early in October that he must fire somebody by the end of the month, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) waits until the last day of the month, Halloween, and still has not fired anyone. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) post Dwight Schrute's (Rainn Wilson) résumé on the internet, and when a prospective employer (Cumberland Mills in Maryland) calls, Jim pretends to be Michael and gives Dwight a great reference. When the company calls Dwight to set up an interview, Dwight immediately ruins his chances by arguing with the caller over the importance and relevance of martial arts on his résumé. Later in the day, Pam suggests that Jim should apply for the Cumberland Mills position. Jim is quietly hurt by the suggestion that Pam would not miss him if he left.
After several failed attempted firings of other employees, Michael calls Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) into his office to fire him. Creed, in turn, convinces Michael to let Devon (Devon Abner) go. After Michael fires Devon, Devon angrily rebuffs Michael's attempts to save their friendship, and invites everyone in the office (except Michael, Creed, Dwight and Angela) to join him at a local bar. As Jim leaves, Pam apologizes for pushing him into taking the Cumberland job and assures him that she would "blow her brains out" if he ever left. Jim admits to the camera that Pam is the only thing keeping him there. When the group leaves the office, Devon smashes a pumpkin over Michael's car in revenge.
At the end of the episode, Michael is alone at his home in front of the television, upset over firing Devon. When trick-or-treaters come, Michael cheerfully gives them a generous amount of candy.
"Halloween" is the third episode written by the series developer, executive producer, and show runner Greg Daniels. The episode was directed by Paul Feig, his second credit after "Office Olympics".[2][3] This episode is the only episode to date to have a quote to play over the Deedle-Dee Productions title card in the closing credits.[2] The quote features Dwight Schrute exclaiming "Quiet, you!"[2]
Daniels came up with the idea of an episode centered on an employee getting fired, but wanted to focus on the perspective of a boss having to deal with the dilemma of letting an employee go.[4] Since Daniels could not fire a series regular due to their contracts, he narrowed down the decision to either Creed or Devon, who at the time were both background characters.[5] Daniels did not initially know which character would ultimately be fired but decided on Devon once discovering that the actor, Devon Abner, had an upcoming theatre contract that conflicted with the series' production.[5]
During the pre-production for the episode, the cast and crew realized that the Halloween concept would allow the various cast members to wear costumes, rather than their "usual, realistically plain suits".[6] B. J. Novak called the dress-up experience "fun", noting that "seeing the most serious of our plotlines play out alongside such silly and bizarre visuals was, I think, one of the most inspired ideas of the episode's writer, Greg Daniels."[6] The idea for Pam to be dressed as a cat was inspired by several unused stories, created by Gene Stupnitsky, in which "Pam Beesley must disguise herself as a cat".[6] The plot lines were vetoed by the show's writers, but Stupnitsky successfully petitioned to allow Pam to wear a cat costume.[6]
"Halloween" marks the last appearance of Devon in an episode until the series finale, seven seasons later. Although Devon was only a background character, he is mentioned during "The Dundies",[7] seen in the background of "The Fire",[8] and is seen in a deleted scene during "Diversity Day".[9] Devon is later seen in a deleted scene on "Valentine's Day", when Michael passes by a homeless Devon in New York. Devon then chases Michael, presumably still angry over the events of "Halloween".[10] Guest stars in this episode included Devon Abner, Hugh Dane, George Gaus, Annabelle Kopack, Ava Nisbet and Alec Zbornak.[11] Lisa Malone was uncredited in her speaking role as Jan's assistant, Sherry.[4]
Due to the presence of Halloween, many of the employees costumes reflect movie and literary characters. Kelly is dressed as Dorothy Gale, but Michael makes an insensitive remark about Bend It Like Beckham. Dwight is dressed as a Sith, one of the characters in the Star Wars universe capable of using the "dark side of the Force". Phyllis, however, confuses him for "some sort of monk".[6][12] Kevin is dressed as a Dunder Mifflin super hero, with a costume design similar to Mr. Incredible.[6][12] Creed is dressed like a vampire and Devon is dressed like a hobo. Pam, Phyllis, and Angela are all dressed up as cats. Oscar is dressed in drag, and Michael asks him if he is "flying his true colors", to which Oscar reacts defensively.[12]
"Halloween" was originally broadcast on NBC in the United States on October 18, 2005.[13] The episode was viewed by 8 million viewers and received a 4.1 rating/10% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[14] This means that it was seen by 4.1% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode was the number one ranked episode among adults, men, and women in the 18–34 demographic, and achieved its highest 18–49 rating since the season's premiere.[14] "Halloween" retained 73 percent of its lead-in My Name Is Earl audience, its best lead-in retention at the time.[14]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B+". He felt that the plot revolving around downsizing was "fitting", because the episode takes place on "Halloween", and that this plot returned Michael to the role of villain.[15] Adams also felt that "director Paul Feig and credited writer Greg Daniels had a lot of fun dressing the show up for “Halloween,” framing Dwight like a shrouded Emperor Palpatine and making John Krasinski step into Steve Carell's shoes for a couple of great punchlines."[15]
The episode received mostly positive reviews from television critics. Michael Sciannamea of TV Squad gave the episode a relatively positive review and noted that he "could certainly relate to [the] episode." Sciannamea also said that "great moment" in the episode was when "Michael tells Creed, who is dressed as a vampire, that he can spread his wings and fly to wherever he wants."[16] "Miss Alli" of Television Without Pity rated "Halloween" a B+.[12] Entertainment Weekly named Michael Scott's line, "I just hope that you and I can remain friends," one of "TV's funniest lines" for the week ending October 24, 2005.[17]


"The Manager and the Salesman" (alternatively titled "Manager and Salesman") is the sixteenth episode of the sixth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 116th episode overall. Written by Mindy Kaling and directed by Marc Webb, it first aired in the United States on NBC on February 11, 2010.
The series, presented in a mockumentary format, depicts the everyday lives of office employees at the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mufflin Paper Company. In the episode, new CEO Jo Bennett (Kathy Bates) visits the Scranton branch and insists that either Michael (Steve Carell) or Jim (John Krasinski) step down from co-manager to salesman, while Dwight (Rainn Wilson) and Ryan (B. J. Novak) conspire to get Jim demoted. The episode achieved a viewership of 7.44 million during its initial airing in the United States.
The office is eager to welcome Sabre CEO Jo Bennett (Kathy Bates) to Scranton, and are dazzled by her Southern ways. Jo announces that in addition to paper, the Dunder Mifflin branches will now sell Sabre printers. When Jo finds out about the two branch managers, she says either Michael Scott (Steve Carell) or Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) must go back to being a salesman. Both are initially reluctant to be demoted, but Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) points out to Jim in the Sabre manual that since Sabre has multiple incentive programs and no cap on sales commissions, he would make much more money being demoted back to salesman. Jim tells Michael that he will go back to sales and Michael can keep his sole manager spot, and Michael is delighted. However, when Michael learns about the sales commission benefit from Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez), he sweet talks Jo into demoting him instead. She complies to his demands due to his greater experience, and Michael gloats to Jim.
Meanwhile, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) decides to give Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) a Valentine's Day card as a way of getting her to ask him out. However, to avoid suspicion, he gives one to everyone in the office. Erin receives a friendly one from him, but Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) accidentally gets a much more romantic one. Kelly is touched and shows Erin, who is surprised and disappointed. Kelly develops a romantic crush on Andy and publicly kisses him. Learning of his mistake, he sends out an email to everyone in the office claiming that he does not like any of them more than a friend. An angered Kelly confronts him, and he admits that there is one person whom he likes, but does not say who. Erin is relieved that he does not like Kelly in that way.
As Michael sets up his desk at the sales section, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) calls a meeting with Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) to think of ways to take Jim down. Ryan angers Dwight with his tardiness and The Lord of the Rings references. They ultimately try getting Nick, the new IT worker, to give them Jim's computer password, but he refuses. Meanwhile, Michael has a difficult time adjusting back to sales, particularly since he can no longer command Erin's services and is exposed to Phyllis Vance's noxious flatulence, a side effect of her new allergy medication. He confides to Jim that he wants the manager job back and they both tell Jo. While frustrated by their fickleness, she allows them to switch. Michael and Erin celebrate his return to his office, and Dwight taunts Jim about his demotion. In a return to his old ways, Jim dips Dwight's tie in his coffee while Pam grins, prompting Dwight to yell “Michael!”
At the end of the episode, Dwight and Ryan decide to go out for drinks to celebrate Jim's demotion, but they instead end up arguing about where to go.
In its original American broadcast, "Manager and Salesman" was watched by 7.44 million viewers, with a 3.7 rating and a 10 share in the 18–49 demographic.[1] Dan Phillips of IGN gave the episode a 7.9 saying it was "Good" and "But again, even with all the episode's strengths, it's impossible not to look at the way it teases at new possibilities with a little frustration and regret. At the very least I would have loved to see Michael on the sales floor for a few more episodes."[2]


"The Target" is the eighth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 184th episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC on November 29, 2012. It features guest star Chris Gethard as Trevor.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) goes to Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) for help when she learns that her husband is having an affair with Oscar (Oscar Nunez). Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) and Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) take advantage of Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) when he needs a favor, and Pete (Jake Lacy) distracts Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) as she begins painting her mural.
"The Target" received positive reviews from critics, with many commenting on Nunez and Kinsey's performances. The episode was viewed by 3.88 million viewers and received 1.9/5 rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking fourth in its timeslot. The episode, however, ultimately ranked as the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) believes that Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) does not know about his affair with her husband, but in fact she is playing dumb in order to keep Oscar off his guard while ponders getting revenge. She goes to Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) for help, without telling him the details, and he calls a fellow former volunteer sheriff's deputy named Trevor (Chris Gethard) for assistance. After Trevor shows his credentials, Angela says she wants the target murdered, which Dwight protests is too extreme, so they compromise to breaking the target's kneecaps. Dwight realizes the target is Oscar when Angela angrily crushes a cookie given to her by Oscar and then overhears Oscar in a phone call with Angela’s husband. Dwight tries to get Angela to reconsider, but Trevor has already arrived to carry out the job. Dwight rushes to get Oscar out, but they run into Trevor outside. A struggle between the three men ensues, with Oscar ultimately managing to take away Trevor's lead pipe. Trevor runs away, and Oscar and Dwight are confronted by Angela, who blames Oscar for turning her husband gay. Oscar tells Angela that she can hate him, but says that her husband was always gay, and refuses to hand the lead pipe over to Angela. She kicks him in the shin instead, and is comforted by Dwight. Upset that they do not understand homosexuality, Dwight and Angela go to Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) with outlandish questions over homosexual activity, much to his dismay.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) asks Dunder Mifflin CEO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) if he can work part-time so he can go to Philadelphia to help with his sports marketing job. David Wallace says that he might be needed in the office if there is a crisis with one of his clients, to which he responds that Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) and Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) have agreed to cover for him, though he in fact has not asked them yet. Stanley and Phyllis respond with their usual disinterest in helping others, so Jim offers to treat them to lunch. Stanley and Phyllis order extra side dishes and help themselves to an excess of wine, annoying Jim with drunken behavior and silencing him whenever he brings up the subject of their covering for him. When they arrive back at the office, a drunk Stanley and Phyllis are seemingly passed out in the backseat of Jim's car. When Jim puts his coat on them to keep them warm, Phyllis and Stanley say they will cover for him as they care for Jim and his family, laughing as they reveal they were only pretending to balk to get a free lunch. Jim gives both of them a hug.
Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) decides to start painting her mural in the warehouse, but has a hard time getting started as she is afraid of it not being perfect. Meanwhile, bored with having to fill out customer complaint cards (which he finds redundant because the complaints are already in the computer), Pete Miller (Jake Lacy) uses them to build a card tower in the annex with other employees. The card tower takes on a deeper meaning for the employees when Pete points out that it is composed of failures made by every one of them (excepting only Pam), and thus proves that they should not be ashamed of their failures. Erin glares at him with more and more interest as time progresses. They decide to try to make it go all the way to the ceiling, but end up one complaint card short. Not wanting to use a blank card as it would defy the point of the tower, Pam offers to complete the tower by getting her first customer complaint. She calls one of their smaller clients, delivers a yo mama joke, and hangs up. The client, whose mother was actually obese and is now deceased, drops Dunder Mifflin as their paper supplier, leaving them simultaneously excited over getting that last complaint and disappointed over losing a client. After celebrating the completion of the card tower, Pam finally starts painting the mural, saying artists should not care too much in what others think, further asserting this by telling off Hide (Hidetoshi Imura) when he insults her artwork.
"The Target" was written by producer Graham Wagner, marking his debut writing credit for the series after joining the writing staff in the ninth season.[2] It was directed by executive producer Brent Forrester, his fourth directing credit for the series and first since the eighth season episode, "Test the Store".[3] Ed Helms and Clark Duke did not appear in the episode. This is due to the fact that they were both written out of several episodes of the season in order to film The Hangover Part III and Kick-Ass 2, respectively.[4][5]
The official website of The Office included several cut scenes from "The Target" within a week of the episode's release. In the first 58-second clip, Pam feels further pressure over her mural and reveals that several of the warehouse workers think her name is Pat.[6] In the second 60-second clip, The Senator comes by the office, Jim pretends to beg to Stanley and Phyllis while they are sleeping, and Pam talks more about her mural.[7] In the third 66-second clip, Angela checks out Trevor's qualifications.[8]
Dwight assures Angela that she is not stupid, rather "Jazz is stupid."[9] Angela concurs, saying: "Just play the right notes!"[9] "The Target" features several meta-references and references to previous episodes. Dwight tells Angela and Trevor that "this documentary crew has been following our every move for the past nine years but I don't see them so I think we're good", when they are in Trevor's van.[9] Angela and Dwight question Toby about the tendencies of homosexuals in a way similar to how Dwight questions Toby about the appearance of female genitalia in the second-season episode "Sexual Harassment".[9][10] While working on her mural, Pam is seen wearing a Pratt Institute sweater, which she attended for three months during the fifth season.[11] Angela tells Dwight to meet up in the "usual place", which Dwight shows up to nude, referencing their previous secretive relationship.[11]
"The Target" originally aired on NBC on November 29, 2012.[12] In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by 3.88 million viewers and received a 1.9 rating/5% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[13] This means that it was seen by 1.9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 5 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This made "The Target" the lowest rated episode of the series, tying with "Here Comes Treble".[13] The episode also ranks as the least-viewed episode of the series and the first one to fall below the 4-million viewer mark.[13] Despite this, The Office was the highest-rated NBC television program.[13] When DVR ratings were taken into account, the episode was viewed by 6.047 million viewers, a 56 percent increase.[14]
"The Target" received mostly positive reviews from critics, with many praising the performances of Oscar Nunez and Angela Kinsey. The A.V. Club reviewer Erik Adams wrote that the episode was a perfect mix, between the more subtle, realistic style of the early seasons, and the more-farcical style of the most recent seasons. He named the Oscar-Angela plotline a "season highlight", and complimented Angela Kinsey's commitment to Angela throughout the plotline. He also praised the other storylines of the episode for showing the family-like bond between the whole ensemble. He ultimately gave the episode an "A−".[10] Cindy White of IGN commented that the episode proved the series did not need a character in the role of the boss. She complimented the confrontation between Oscar and Angela and the Pam subplot for marking some "development" in her character, but criticized the Jim-Stanley-Phyllis subplot for being "over the top". She ultimately gave the episode an 8.0/10.[4] Paste writer Bonnie Stiernberg called the episode "strong", and compared it to the older episodes. She praised the Oscar-Angela plotline, calling it Oscar Nunez and Kinsey's best performance of the year. She also complimented the Jim-Stanley-Phyllis subplot, calling the ending to it sweet, and the Pam-Pete-Erin subplot, calling it "more complex-but no less enjoyable" and praised the development of Pam's character, considering it to be "touching". Stiernberg ultimately gave the episode an 8.6/10.[15]
Michael Tedder of New York praised the writers’ work and for giving "nice character moments" to the cast, particularly Kinsey. He also praised them for giving Kinsey "more to work with", comparing her role in previous episodes which featured her character being "exaggerated to cartoon levels for the sake of a laugh".[11] ScreenCrush reviewer Damon Houx was slightly more critical with his review, writing that while the cast was quite good, the episode was too struggled with "find[ing] stuff for everyone to do", and that the Pete-Erin-Pam and Jim-Stanley-Phyllis subplots "ultimately have nowhere interesting to go".[16] Multiple critics noted similarities between the style of this episode with the early seasons of the series, particularly for its use of callbacks.[10][11][15]


"The Alliance" is the fourth episode of the first season of the American comedy television series The Office. The episode aired on NBC in the United States on April 12, 2005. It was written by Michael Schur and directed by Bryan Gordon, marking their first credits for the show.
In this episode, paranoia takes over the members of the office as downsizing rumors swirl. Dwight Schrute (played by Rainn Wilson) forms a Survivor-esque alliance with Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) against the other employees—later adding Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer). Meanwhile, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) arranges a morale-boosting birthday party for Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery), although her birthday is more than a month away. Michael agonizes over writing the perfect greeting in her birthday card, and in the end, his joke falls flat, ruining the party and the employees' morale.
The episode was inspired by popular reality television shows, most notably Survivor. The first cut of the episode ran 37 minutes and the producers considered making the episode a two-parter, one focusing on the alliance and another focusing on Meredith's birthday party, but decided against the idea. "The Alliance" was viewed by an estimated 5.4 million viewers and received a 2.4/6% rating share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode received positive reviews from critics.
Dwight Schrute feels threatened by the downsizing rumors at Dunder Mifflin, and forms an alliance with co-worker Jim Halpert. Jim agrees as a lark. He enlists Pam Beesly's help with a series of office pranks at the expense of Dwight.
Michael Scott tries to boost morale in the office by having an office birthday party for Meredith Palmer, even though her birthday is a month away. Michael agonizes over writing the perfect greeting in her birthday card. He resorts to a joke about the rumored downsizing, which causes everyone to worry about the downsizing, the very thing Michael launched the party in order to avoid. Oscar gets him to donate money to his nephew's cerebral palsy walk-a-thon. Not knowing what a walk-a-thon is, Michael pledges per mile what he intended as a one-time donation. Jim points out Michael's mistake to him, but Oscar refuses to let Michael revise or take back his pledge.
Jim giddily grabs Pam's hand as he explains that he has persuaded Dwight to go undercover at the Stamford branch. Pam's fiancé Roy Anderson catches this and sees it as Jim making a move on Pam. Jim explains to Roy that he was pranking Dwight and asks Dwight to back him up, but Dwight simply denies any involvement leaving Jim looking guilty. Dwight claims to the documentary crew that he proposed the alliance with Jim as a plan for this betrayal from the beginning.
The episode was inspired by popular reality television shows, most notably Survivor. The "Can I trust Jim?..." line was a direct reference to the show and was a "last-second addition" according to Daniels.[2] In addition, Randall Einhorn, the cameraman for the episode, was a cameraman for Survivor. When the episode was being written, many of the cast and crew feared that Oscar refusing to let Michael off the hook for his walk-a-thon pledge was a lapse from the realistic tone the show was aiming for, more resembling the unreasonable behavior seen on Curb Your Enthusiasm.[3] Daniels defended the plausibility of Michael making the pledge, saying that since he was aware of the documentary crew filming him during that scene, he would be self-conscious to the extent that he might write the pledge without examining exactly what he was agreeing to. During the writing of the episode, Daniels made the writers spend actual time on the set, most notably in Michael's office.[2] Mindy Kaling later noted that she "hated it".[4]
The first cut of the episode ran 37 minutes long and the producers were tasked with cutting the footage down to 22 minutes. Executive producer Greg Daniels considered making the episode a two-parter, one focusing on the alliance and another focusing on Meredith's birthday party, but the appearance of party hats in the alliance scenes caused him to nix this idea. Because the episode had to be cut down due to time, several scenes were drastically cut. The footage of Steve Carell coming up with terrible card ideas was drastically reduced.[2] During the party, Ryan talks to a different woman in the background of each scene.[4] Although not much footage made it into the final episode, the producers thought this was a nice character touch for the new employee.[5] The penultimate scenes of Michael telling several terrible jokes to Meredith were also trimmed down.[6] The scene where Roy confronts Jim was shot ten different times, each in a different style, ranging from Roy slamming Jim into the wall to Roy asking Jim, "Hey, what are you doing?"[2][3] Although the crew felt that the wall-slamming version was more dramatic, they realized that it caused the episode to go from a comedy to an "angry drama".[2]
Several of the lines and scenes from the episode were improvised or ad-libbed by the cast. Jenna Fischer named the party planning scene her favorite scene and called it the "longest most horrible meeting of all time".[7] On the commentary track for the episode, Fischer revealed that the scene was almost entirely ad-libbed.[2][7] At one point, Phyllis Smith, who portrays Phyllis Margaret Vance (née Lapin), made a joke that made every one on set laugh, forcing production to halt for almost 45 minutes.[2] Dwight's "gun show" joke was written by Rainn Wilson.[8] Larry Wilmore later called the "gun show" scene his favorite. Wilmore later said of ab-libs, "part of the fun in writing a show like this is trying to write lines that sound like ad-libs."[3] Daniels also praised the episode's lines, saying, "when you know the acting is really good, it all sounds like it's been improvised."[2]
The scenes where Dwight climbs into a box almost did not make the episode. Mike Schur, who wrote the episode, feared that Dwight climbing into the box would not only make the episode "crazy broad", but also make the rest of the episode look boring by comparison. After shooting the scene, however, he described it as "the most natural thing in the world".[6] Phil Shaw, the stunt man for The Office, did most of the work in the box.[8] Schur described Dwight's emergence from the box as his "action hero" moment.[6] Daniels likened the scene to the movie Alien.[2] Editing the scene proved another hurdle, since the box had slightly shifted across the floor from take to take, making it difficult to piece together takes in a way that avoided obvious inconsistencies.[2]
In its original American broadcast on April 12, 2005, "The Alliance" was viewed by an estimated 5.4 million viewers and received a 2.4/6% rating share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 2.4% of all 18–49 year-olds, and 6% of all 18–49 year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode, airing after Scrubs, retained 100% of its lead-in 18–49 audience for the second week in a [9]
The episode received positive reviews from critics, with many praising the developing relationship between Pam and Jim. Travis Fickett from IGN praised the episode and compared Jim and Pam's relationship in the first season to that of the fourth, saying, "Jim and Pam simply work better before they were a couple. The fact that Roy can come between them here is fun – and reminds us that it was more interesting when something could still come between them!" In summary, he concluded that, "['The Alliance'] is one of the better early episodes of the show, and going out with Dwight talking to the camera – his hair dyed blonde – is genius and gives us (up to this point) the most perfect 'Dwight' moment of the show so far."[10] Television critic Robin Pierson noted that in the episode, "The Jim and Pam relationship begins to take real shape here." He later called the moment when Roy nearly attacks Jim as "a much more 'real' moment that the rest of the episode." Furthermore, Pierson criticized the characterization of Dwight, noting that his actions were "stupidly naïve".[11]  Miss Alli from Television Without Pity gave the episode an A.[12]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B−". He felt that the episode was "akin to a newborn deer working the wobbles out of its legs" and that "it's a milestone for The Office, in that it represents the first time an episode generated so much material it could’ve occupied a full hour of airtime". He felt that Michael's plot was funny, but had issues. He argued that the retooling of Michael's character made him a more likable character even when he was doing something inappropriate; in this episode, however, his behavior is too cringe-inducing. Adams praised the scene wherein Dwight emerged from the box, calling it one of "The Office's first great sight gags". Furthermore, he felt that the scene was symbolic, as it produced "a stronger, deadlier, better character".[13]


"Hot Girl" is the sixth episode and season finale of the first season of the American comedy television series The Office. The episode aired on NBC in the United States on April 26, 2005. The episode was written by consulting producer Mindy Kaling, marking her first writing credit for the series. The episode was directed by Amy Heckerling, her only directing credit for the series.
In this episode, Michael (played by Steve Carell) allows an attractive salesperson (Amy Adams) to sell her purses in the office, catching the eye of almost every male in the office. Pam (Jenna Fischer) and Jim (John Krasinski) use the situation to play another prank on Dwight (Rainn Wilson).
"Hot Girl" received mostly positive reviews from critics. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode received 4.8 million viewers and received a 2.3 rating/5% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.
Corporate informs Michael Scott that an incentive program has been set up where the top Dunder Mifflin sales representative will be rewarded with a prize of up to $1,000. As Michael decides on the prize, Katy Moore, a pretty young purse saleswoman, comes into the office to sell her wares. Michael lets her set up shop in the conference room. As he shows her around the office, Michael tries to impress her while doing his best to impede the chances of any other office male getting a date with her, going so far as to spend the aforementioned $1,000 on an espresso machine because she likes coffee. Roy Anderson mentions that he would go for her if he were not dating Pam Beesly, and an angry Pam corrects him that they are engaged.
Jim Halpert convinces Dwight Schrute to approach Katy and buy a purse, which he does to Pam and Jim's delight. However, Katy turns Dwight down when he asks her out. When Michael hears she will need a ride home, he offers to drive her. While Pam is sitting on Jim's desk and talking to him, Roy comes up and gets Pam out of her bad mood by tickling her; an uncomfortable Jim leaves his desk. Jim strikes up a conversation with Katy, and later tells Pam that he and Katy are going on a date for the weekend, but Pam is unsure if he is joking or not, particularly after he says he and Katy may get matching tattoos. Katy accepts a ride from Jim, leaving Michael devastated. As Katy and Jim agree to go out for a drink while getting in his car, Pam realizes Jim was serious about him and Katy.
"Hot Girl" was the first episode written by writer and actress Mindy Kaling, who portrays Kelly Kapoor.[2] Kaling became one of the most prolific writers for the series, writing 22 of its episodes.[3] She was later promoted to executive producer of the show for its eighth season.[4] The episode was also the first and only one directed by Amy Heckerling.[5]
"Hot Girl" introduced the recurring role of Katy, portrayed by Amy Adams. Katy would appear in two more episodes: "The Fire" and "Booze Cruise". Adams remarked that she thoroughly enjoyed her work on the show. In an interview with The Advocate, she said that The Office "was the best work experience. I loved that show and that cast so much. I don't know if they believe me, but every time I see them I'm like, 'Oh my gosh, I'll do anything to come back.'"[6]  Several years after she left the show as a recurring character, B. J. Novak wanted to write her a cameo in the seventh season episode "Threat Level Midnight", but she was unavailable for filming.[7] "Hot Girl" was one of two first-season episodes, the other being "Health Care", that did not contain commentary by members of the cast and crew on the season DVD.[5]
In its original American broadcast on April 26, 2005, "Hot Girl" was viewed by an estimated 4.8 million viewers and received a 2.3/5% rating share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[8] This means that it was seen by 2.3% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 5% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode, airing after Scrubs, retained 81% of its lead-in audience.[9] The episode, along with Scrubs, ranked fourth in its timeslot, being beaten by a rerun of the Fox medical drama House which received a 6.3 rating in the 18–49 demographic, the CBS reality show The Amazing Race which received a 5.1 rating, and ABC, which ran a rerun of the comedy According to Jim and a new episode of the sitcom Rodney, averaging a 3.3 rating.[9] "Hot Girl" received the lowest rating in the show's history[9] until it was beaten by the season eight episode "Tallahassee" almost seven years later.[10]  After the lackluster reception of the episode, Media Life Magazine erroneously predicted that "Hot Girl" would also serve as the de facto series finale.[9]
The episode received moderately positive reviews from critics. Travis Fickett from IGN retroactively gave the episode an 8.0 out of 10, signifying a "great" episode. Fickett wrote that "Hot Girl" helped to establish what type of character Michael would eventually become in the subsequent seasons, noting the character's "deep and desperate loneliness" which would eventually become a main conceit in the series. He concluded that the episode ended with a "classic Office moment"—Michael realizing that Jim will be giving Katy a ride home—that "captures the desperation and loneliness of [Pam, Jim, and Michael] – and does a great job of setting the stage for the show's terrific second season."[11] Miss Alli from Television Without Pity gave the episode a B but described it as "the weakest of the first season". Alli noted that the episode was largely the "play on the same joke", featuring Michael and Dwight "making idiots of themselves over Katy". However, she did positively compare the American version of the show to the British version, stating, "All things considered, I think the first season is very underrated owing to unnecessary comparisons to the British version", but concluded that the episode was "its weak moment".[12]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B+". Adams largely praised Fischer's performance, noting that she "helped build her character's arc every step of the way" in the series and that several of her moments in "Hot Girl" helped to emphasize this point. Furthermore, he complimented the appearance of Katy, noting that she causes a rift between Pam and Jim, but due to "the confidence of Adams' performance and some hidden compartments in Kaling's script", she also has "legitimate agency".[13]

"Murder" is the tenth episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 110th episode overall. It was written by Daniel Chun and directed by Greg Daniels. It originally aired on NBC on November 12, 2009. The episode guest stars Andy Buckley as David Wallace, although he only appears via the phone.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, rumors spread that Dunder Mifflin is in serious financial trouble, so Michael Scott (Steve Carell) tries to distract the office by having everyone play a murder mystery game called Belles, Bourbon, and Bullets. Meanwhile, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) uses the game as a way to ask out Erin (Ellie Kemper), but fears he may have asked out Erin's character, instead of Erin herself.
"Murder" was the first entry in the series written by Chun, and was his first script for the series. The episode also was the inception of two major story arcs, the first being the season-long arc of Dunder Mifflin going out of business and its purchase by the printer company Sabre in the episode of the same name, and the second being the budding romance between Andy and Erin. The episode scored a 4.2/10 rating share in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic, and was watched by 8.046 million viewers. The episode received largely positive reviews from critics, with many highlighting its purposeful ridiculousness.
In the cold open, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) instructs the members of the office once a year on the various "changes" that various martial arts have experienced. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) pranks Dwight by asking him to demonstrate the moves on himself, because Jim reasons Dwight is the most worthy opponent for himself. Dwight ends up punching, blocking, and kicking his own attacks, and ultimately ends up punching himself in the groin, to the amusement of the members of the office.
The members of the office learn that Dunder Mifflin is in financial trouble. In an attempt to get the worried staff under control, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Jim call a meeting to provide optimistic viewpoints, despite the steadily worsening news. In a moment of quick thinking, Michael pulls out a murder mystery party game called Belles, Bourbon, and Bullets and forces the rest of the staff to play along. The staff slowly warm up to the game. It is set in Savannah, Georgia, and everyone has to adopt a Southern accent. Thanks to Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer), Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), and Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith), the game becomes a hit, and everyone present starts to play along, except for Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez), who tries to get updates on the situation from corporate, and Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton), who shows up late to work and flees after being told he is a suspect in a murder. Jim, however, believes that the entire exercise is pointless.
Andy decides he needs to make a move on Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) before the day is out, as he may otherwise never see her again due to the possible impending closure of Dunder Mifflin. While in character, he asks Erin out for a weekend date but becomes unsure if he really asked her out or if he just simply asked out her murder mystery character, "Naughty Nelly." He is worried that Erin only agreed because Naughty Nelly is a promiscuous character.
Just as the game seems to get interesting, Oscar returns and informs everyone that accounting has been notified to stop payments to vendors. This brings the staff out of the game and back to the reality of losing their jobs. Michael tries to win them back but accidentally skips to the game's conclusion, revealing that Phyllis's character, Beatrix Bourbon, was the murderer. Although everyone else goes back to work even more stressed out, Michael refuses to give up and continues playing the game with Dwight. After the game, Andy and Erin meet at the receptionist desk, where Erin asks him about their upcoming date. Andy tries to sound out whether the date is real or fictional by suggesting that they go to Savannah for their date. Erin, in character, remarks that Savannah is a long distance away; confused by this, Andy slips up and indicates that the "date" was just part of the game. Erin says she was also just playing but appears humiliated as she walks away and later reveals to the camera crew that she thought the date was real.
Michael tries to introduce another murder and other twists to the story to pull his staff back into the party. This infuriates Jim to his breaking point, and they hold a private talk in Michael's office. Michael snaps at Jim and points out that he is doing this to keep the office calm. CFO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) finally returns the phone calls to Jim and reveals that, while nothing has been officially decided yet, Dunder Mifflin is expected to be insolvent by year-end. Jim hides the news from the staff and nudges them back into the party. Jim finally realizes that Michael was doing this to help his co-workers cope. At the end of the episode, Michael, Dwight, Andy, and Pam find themselves in a fake Mexican standoff lasting until 6:00 at night. Jim pulls Pam out so they can go home, and the others pretend to shoot each other to death.
The episode was written by Daniel Chun, and was his first script for the series. The episode also was the inception of two major story arcs, the first being the season-long arc of Dunder Mifflin going out of business and its purchase by the printer company Sabre in the episode of the same name, and the second being the budding romance between Andy and Erin. According to series creator and episode director Greg Daniels, the episode explores the idea that Michael is positively motivated due to his subconscious; although his antics seem nonsensical to many members of the office, in the end, his idea to take his coworkers' minds off of the fiscal trouble proves to be the best choice. This was first explored in the third season episode "Grief Counseling".[2] Chun later explained in a Q&A with The Office fansite OfficeTally that "the episode was partly about Jim realizing that sometimes Michael isn't crazy, he's crazy like a fox" in that sometimes his underlying motives are clever.[3]
Most of the names were based on "Southern puns", and it took Chun a while to think of all the names. All of the props, cards, and box were designed by the series' prop department. The producers tried to market the game as a real product, although that never came to fruition.[2] Chun crafted the cold open after being inspired by the second season episode "The Fight" because he wanted to see more "Karate Dwight". In the original version of the open, the script featured Dwight and Michael kicking each other in the groin. Jennifer Celotta, however, suggested that Dwight fight himself.[4] The episode guest-stars Andy Buckley, who plays David Wallace. Buckley appears only via the telephone, and recorded his lines in the annex of the set, to give the illusion that he was calling from a long ways away.[2]
"Murder" was directed by Daniels. He particularly enjoyed directing both the cold open, as well as the closing tag, likening both to "an action film". In regards to the latter, he referred to it as a sequence that director Quentin Tarantino would have thought up, and noted the importance of having the camera appear in the middle of the Mexican standoff to reveal Fischer. Wilson, Helms, and Carell enjoyed filming the scene, and were particularly exuberant when it came time to fake-kill each other.[4][5] Several of the scenes, such as when Andy first asks Erin on a date, had to be re-shot so that the cameras were in more discreet places. Daniels later referred to these shots as "spy shots".[2][4][5] Initially, after Michael announces that "there has been a murder", the show was supposed to have cut to a commercial break. However, the producers realized that this was too misleading, as it would have implied that a real homicide had taken place.[4]
The Season Six DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Michael berating and then apologizing to Erin, Michael making a racist remark about slavery while in character, various conference room scenes, and extended sequences of the members of the office playing the game in-character.[6]
Wallace alerts the office that the company's troubles have been published in the Wall Street Journal, but Michael and Erin mistake this to mean the "feelings journal",[7] Michael listens to "Lullaby" by Shawn Mullins to soothe himself; Chun explained that the reason the song was chosen was because "Michael would probably have loved top 40 pop from the 90s. And I figured the song would have to be devoid of subtext. That's why 'Lullaby' felt like a fit."[3][4] When Jim lowers the volume on Michael's computer, the tell-tale "click" of a Mac computer comes out of the speakers. Daniels and Chun note that this was intentional, and they wanted that specific sound, even though Windows computers do not make that sound.[2][4] Pam's southern accent is compared to the fictional character Forrest Gump. After Andy successfully does a Savannah accent, Kevin asks him to do "the Swedish Chef".[7] Andy, not understanding the reference asks "what province" he is from, to which Kevin replies that "he lives on Sesame Street, dumbass."[7] Angela blames her character's dabbling with the dark arts—she portrays a witch doctor in the game—with being exposed to the Harry Potter series.[7]
"Murder" first aired on NBC on November 12, 2009.[8]  In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by an estimated 8.046 million viewers and received a 4.2 rating/10 percent share in the 18–49 demographic. This means that it was seen by 4.2 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[9] This marked a slight increase in the ratings from the previous episode, "Double Date".[9][10]
"Murder" received generally positive reviews, with many complimenting the fact that the show was able to dabble in a ridiculous situation with over-the-top characters while, in the end, still having a point. Dan Phillips of IGN said that the episode was a "major step up" from the "disappointing" last two episodes, "Koi Pond" and "Double Date".[11] Phillips stated that the episode "struck a nice balance between unbound silliness and grounded drama, even if the silliness dominated at times."[11] Phillips praised the way that, when Michael stood up to Jim and argued that the office members needed the game to remain sane, "the character I love had returned after playing the part of moronic jerk for too much of this season."[11] Ultimately, he gave the episode an 8.8 out of 10 score, denoting a "great" episode.[11]
Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club awarded the episode an "A−" and praised the way it both managed to touch upon Dunder Mifflin's serious economic trouble, as well as allowed the actors and actresses—and Steve Carell in particular—to use "ridiculous accent[s]" and "crazy character[s]".[12] He also enjoyed the way that Andy and Erin's subplot was developed, writing that "Andy becomes a deeper, more lovable character with each passing episode" and that "Erin has quickly become an appealing, engaging character."[12] He concluded that the episode was enjoyable because it "was silliness with a purpose".[12]
Alan Sepinwall praised Krasinski's acting, noting that he got the chance to "nail a great dramatic moment".[13] He also felt that Dunder Mifflin's crisis was an interesting development for the show, and put a new spin on the recurring theme of fiscal issues. Finally, he praised the Andy and Erin romancing, noting that it "allows the writers to push a similar scenario [that had been used with Pam and Jim] in a more overtly comic direction, while still getting some pathos out of it."[13] Gage Henry of Paste felt that the entry was a "great way to dust off last week’s" episode.[14] He was pleased that it show-cased Michael as the "all-knowing father figure whose mysterious ways pan out in the end."[14]



"Night Out" is the fifteenth episode of the fourth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's sixty-eighth episode overall. The episode was written by Mindy Kaling and directed by Ken Whittingham.  It first aired in the United States on April 24, 2008 on NBC.[1] "Night Out" was viewed by a measured audience of over 7.5 million people,[2] bringing in the lowest number of estimated viewers that The Office received among 12 episodes.[3] "Night Out" received mixed reviews from critics.
In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) travel to New York City to party with Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak). Ryan starts acting erratically, and it is revealed that he is under the influence of drugs. Meanwhile, the remaining employees are going to be forced to work on a Saturday. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) proposes that they work late on Friday, so they do not have to come in the next day. Once Jim and his co-workers finish working, they find that they are locked in, and everyone quickly places the blame on Jim.
Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) arrives at the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the Dunder Mifflin Paper Company and is noticeably friendlier than on his previous visits. The employees, by now fed up with Ryan's new website, angrily ask him questions about the website and their clients. Ryan shows the staff at the branch the new Dunder Mifflin website, "Dunder Mifflin Infinity 2.0", the previous version of which was shut down because sexual predators had invaded the social networking component of the site. As Ryan leaves, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) asks him if he could set him up with any of the women he knows, and Ryan tells Michael of the women he meets in clubs in New York City. Michael and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) decide to go to New York, locate Ryan, attend parties with him, and try to meet women while doing so.
In New York, Michael and Dwight visit the club Ryan frequents. Ryan is thrilled to see them but appears to be under the influence of drugs, though Michael and Dwight do not notice. Later, Michael, Dwight, Ryan and Ryan's colleague Troy Underbridge (Noel Petok) wait outside another club, which does not allow anyone in who does not have a date. Dwight pairs each of them with members of a women's basketball team who are waiting in line. Inside the club, Ryan's dancing becomes erratic, and he accidentally hits a girl, prompting her friends to attack him. Dwight and Michael escort him out of the club, and after Troy advises them not to take Ryan to a hospital, he runs off. Michael and Dwight bring Ryan back to his apartment, where he tells them that he thinks Troy has a drug problem, and asks what he should do about it. Michael, oblivious to the fact that Ryan is referring to his own drug addiction, gives him hypothetical advice involving a wiretap and snitching on a drug dealer.
Back in Scranton, the rest of the employees are going to be forced to work on a Saturday to record their own sales as the website's sales, which is, according to Ryan, "a temporary procedure to increase the legitimacy of the website." Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) suggests everyone stay in the office late instead of coming in for the Saturday. They all agree to the plan, but Jim forgets to tell the security guard they are staying late. After working until 9:00 pm, they find the parking lot gates locked, and are unable to return to the office because Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) locked the door from the inside, and Dwight has both the spare and master keys. Jim calls Hank the security guard (Hugh Dane), who puts off coming to let them out because Jim neglected to collect money for his last annual tip. Pam accidentally injures Meredith by hitting her head with a football that was found in the parking lot. Sitting in the lobby area waiting for the security guard to arrive, the employees vote by a show of hands that Andy and Angela are a better couple than Jim and Pam.
During a moment of levity, Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) reaches over and feels Pam's knee. After an awkward silence, Toby proclaims that he is moving to Costa Rica; he then climbs the parking lot fence and runs away. The cleaning staff arrives and lets the group out with help from Oscar, who speaks Spanish.
Hank is incredulous when he arrives at the office to find everyone but the cleaning staff is gone.
"Night Out" was the seventh episode of the series directed by Ken Whittingham. It was written by Mindy Kaling, who also acts in the show as customer-service representative Kelly Kapoor. The episode was the eighth of the series to be written by Kaling. "Night Out" was the third new episode of The Office to be broadcast since the episode "The Deposition" on November 15, 2007, due to the effects of the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike. Filming of The Office immediately halted on that date, because many members of the cast including Carell, Novak, Kaling, and Lieberstein are members of the WGA and refused to cross WGA picket lines.[5] If not for the writers' strike, this episode would have most likely been filmed in November 2007.[6]
Most of "Night Out" was shot during the night. The scene that has Toby putting his hand on Pam's knee was shot at 2:30 am on a Friday. The scene was shot about eight times because according to Kaling, "everyone kept breaking because Toby was so vulnerable and awkward." Kate Flannery did her stunts in the scene where Pam throws a football and hits Customer and Supplier Relations worker Meredith Palmer (Flannery) in the face. Flannery had a stunt double on the set, but she was never needed for the scene. Kate recalls that she "didn't get a scratch in all 14 takes that we shot." Lieberstein on the other hand used a stunt double for the scene in which Toby climbs over the fence. Although Lieberstein offered to do the stunt himself, executive producer and show runner Greg Daniels decided against it.[7]
When casting "Tall Girl #1" (the woman who would kiss with Dwight), the show was looking for a girl 6'1" or taller. Actress Cassie Fliegel, who is 5'11", auditioned for the part anyway. After getting a callback, Fliegel went to a gym to work out, attempting to gain muscle to look more like a basketball player. On the day of the callbacks, Fliegel remembers being next to a girl who was 6'8". Despite her size, Fliegel, a former basketball player herself, was cast for the part. Initially, she did not know that her character was going to make out with Dwight. Fliegel recalls that when she first heard about kissing Dwight she "was like, I don't think so". However, after finding out that she had her own trailer, Fliegel warmed up to the idea.[8] The music in the club was chosen by Novak, Kaling's then-boyfriend Benjamin Nugent, and Daniel Chun. When filming Ryan dancing in the club, the girl that Ryan hit was actually a stunt woman. Pads had been placed on the floor so Novak could fall down safely.[9] The German lullaby that Dwight sang to Ryan was script supervisor Veda Semarne's idea. Semarne's Austrian grandmother sang the same song to her when she was a child.[10]
"Night Out" received 4.0/10 in the ages 18–49 demographic in the Nielsen ratings. This means that four percent of all households with an 18- to 49-year-old living in it watched the episode, and ten percent had their televisions tuned to the channel at any point. The episode was watched by 7.56 million viewers.[11] "Night Out" did not do as well as "Chair Model" did the week before, losing 20 percent of the previous episode's viewers. Some attribute the loss of viewers to a lack of Grey's Anatomy and a repeat of CSI the previous week.[2] With 7.69 million, "Night Out" had fewer viewers than any other episode of The Office from the fourth season, except for "Job Fair", which garnered only 7.16 million viewers.[12]
Reviews for "Night Out" were mixed. Zap2It's Rick Porter thought that although it wasn't "as sublime in its Needy Michael-ness as last week's [episode]" and "in some ways, though, it was maybe even a little sadder", "Night Out" was "still pretty darn funny". Porter went on to praise the acting work of both B. J. Novak and Paul Lieberstein, as well as the writing of Mindy Kaling.[13] TV Squad's Jay Black said that Michael summed up "Night Out" perfectly when he said "Best. Night. Ever." Black went on to praise both of the storylines, and the ability of the show to achieve success both in as well as out of the Dunder Mifflin Scranton building.[14] Similar to Black's statements, Gretchen Hansen of Entertainment Weekly stated that "'Best. Night. Ever.' Oh, so true, Michael." She also stated that "I guess I knew it was going to be a good episode of The Office when I had two pages of scribbled notes before the first commercial break." Hansen went on to praise both the acting and the writing of the episode as points that contributed to the success of the episode.[15] Rachel Cericola, of TV Fodder, praised the writing of the episode by Mindy Kaling. She also praised the storyline of the episode that did not involve Michael and Dwight, saying "The second plotline was its usual funny filler. However, it was Toby's revelation that made it all worthwhile."[16]
Travis Fickett of IGN said that the episode was "still satisfying, even when it's not one of the show's funnier episodes", but "it's a bit of a shame this episode wasn't a home run, because having Dwight and Michael hit the clubs is a funny idea." Fickett went on to praise the episode's awkward moment between Toby and Pam, when Toby placed his hand on Pam's leg, and Toby's subsequent escape by hopping the fence. Fickett stated that, for Toby's growing love of Pam, and growing envy of Jim, "this is pretty great pay off".[17] Claire Zulkey, a writer for the Los Angeles Times, was not as pleased with the episode. Zulkey wrote "that when it's at its zaniest, The Office is at its worst", and the episode was "just too silly to be funny". Zulkey did say that "it was hilarious to see him [Toby] let his hand more-than-linger on her knee and then abruptly flee the premises by jumping over the fence and running home."[18] In a poll done by Office fansite OfficeTally.com, viewers ranked "Night Out" as the 13th-most popular episode out of the 14 episodes of season four.[19]



"Sabre" is the fifteenth episode of the sixth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 115th episode overall. The episode was directed by John Krasinski, his directorial debut for the series, and written by Jennifer Celotta. It originally aired on NBC on February 4, 2010.
The series, presented in a mockumentary style, depicts the everyday lives of office employees at the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael (Steve Carell) has difficulties accepting the policies of Sabre, the new parent company of Dunder Mifflin. Meanwhile, Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam (Jenna Fischer) visit a prestigious daycare, hoping to reserve a spot for their child with whom Pam is pregnant. The episode achieved a viewership of 7.36 during its initial airing in the United States.
The episode marks the first appearance of Kathy Bates as Jo Bennett, the CEO of Sabre. The episode received positive views from critics, who highlighted Bates's introduction in particular as a strong point. Beginning with this episode, Ed Helms is added to the opening credits.[1]
Sabre has taken over the branches of Dunder Mifflin, and Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods), the coordinating director for emerging regions from Sabre, arrives at the Scranton branch to greet them. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) has everyone give him a standing ovation and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) and Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) sing a Scranton-themed parody of "Party in the U.S.A." by Miley Cyrus to impress him, but mispronounce "Sabre" (as sah-bray). In a conference room meeting, Gabe shows an introductory video of Sabre, a company that primarily sells printers, starring Christian Slater and then shares some of the company's new policies, including the use of reusable drink containers, fewer vacation weeks, and site blocking of time-wasting sites like YouTube and Twitter, which is done in the background by IT assistant Nick (Nelson Franklin). Michael is resistant to the changes and requests a meeting with Gabe's superiors. Michael engages in a video chat with Sabre CEO Jo Bennett (Kathy Bates) and expresses concerns about the new policies. Bennett replies that those policies came under a mismanaged company and that Michael would have "until the end of the day" to decide what he wants, and when he resists she says bluntly, "I would take until the end of the day if I were you". Frustrated, Michael leaves the office to visit former Dunder Mifflin Chief Financial Officer David Wallace (Andy Buckley) for advice.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) visit the most prestigious daycare center in the area with hopes to impress the director. Jim enters a bathroom and sees the day care director Jerry (Joey Slotnick) on the toilet. Jim and Pam agree not to bring up the incident during the interview, but when the interview goes poorly Pam directly asks Jerry if this has to do with Jim walking in on him. Jerry denies this, and when Pam refuses to let the subject drop, he makes veiled insults and explains that the bathroom door does not lock for the children's safety.
Andy and Erin conduct interviews with the film crew, and each admit interest in dating. However, Andy thinks that the "ball is in Erin's court" since he already did his part with his last spectacular display involving a band drumline, while Erin assumes that Andy will continue to take the active role in their courtship. Andy tries hinting to Erin to ask him out by inquiring about her weekend plans, but Erin assumes he is leading up to ask her out and eagerly tells him she has nothing planned. Andy exits with exasperation.
Michael arrives unannounced at David Wallace's home, and finds that he has not shaved nor done anything productive recently. David's son plays the drums in the living room, while David's wife provides hints that David should actually do something outside the house. Michael and David go in the hot tub, where Michael asks him how he should handle the changes at Sabre. David has no advice and instead asks Michael to join him on his proposed business venture "Suck It", a vacuum that collects children's toys. Michael, realizing what has happened to David, leaves and expresses concerns for David's well-being to the camera crew.
Michael returns to the office and proclaims his allegiance to Sabre and its new policies. He proposes a toast with orange juice in the metallic Sabre bottles to the new management, which after drinking claims it's like drinking a battery. The episode closes with a vignette of David Wallace and his son playing a jingle for the "Suck It" toy vacuum.
This episode was watched by 7.36 million viewers, with a 3.8 rating and a 10 share in the 18–49 demographic rising 3% from the last original episode helping it come in second in its timeslot and the most viewed episode of Comedy Night Done Right.[2] The episode got mostly positive reviews from critics. Dan Phillips of IGN gave the episode an 8.5, saying it was "Great" and that "The episode isn't the funniest of the season, but it is fun to see the show gear up for its next extended story arc. Whether or not the writers are really implying that we're all a little like Michael, it's clear they're once again casting him as the goofy hero, one who will help resist these new stuffy bosses in his uniquely funny ways. And at the very least, there's great potential in having Bates and Steve Carell square off for a run of episodes."[3] Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club gave it a A− saying that "Wrestling with terrifying new financial realities has helped keep the show relevant and lively well into its sixth season. I'm excited about this current arc and look forward to more appearances from Kathy Bates, who did an awful lot with very little screen time as the faux-folksy, semi-terrifying head of Sabre."[4]


"Email Surveillance" is the ninth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's fifteenth episode overall. Written by Jennifer Celotta,  and directed by Paul Feig, the episode first aired in the United States on November 22, 2005 on NBC. The episode guest starred Ken Jeong and Omi Vaidya.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, the company tech support employee gives Michael Scott (Steve Carell) the ability to read his employees' emails, causing him to find out that Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) is throwing a party that Michael was not invited to. Meanwhile, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) begins to suspect that Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey)  might secretly be having a relationship.
Ken Jeong explained that, while all the scenes were scripted, the actors were allowed to improvise their lines during the improv shots. Omi Vaidya revealed that, during the party scenes, the cast were allowed to drink real beer and play video games on an Xbox 360. "Email Surveillance" received largely positive reviews from television critics. The episode earned a Nielsen rating of 3.9 in the 18–49 demographic and was viewed by 8.3 million viewers in its original broadcast.
Dunder Mifflin's tech support employee, Sadiq (Omi Vaidya), arrives at the Scranton branch. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) panics, assuming that Sadiq is a terrorist due to him being Middle Eastern. Sadiq sets up a system that allows Michael to monitor his employees' emails. When everyone in the office finds out, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) worries that Michael will discover the party he is throwing that night, to which Michael is not invited. Inevitably, Michael notices and tries to get Jim to admit that he's having a party, while Jim acts nonchalantly as if nothing is happening. In order to keep Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) from exposing the party, Jim tells him that it is a surprise party for Michael.
Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) notices some things that lead her to suspect that Dwight and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) are dating. However, she discreetly abandons her suspicions when she asks Phyllis Lapin (Phyllis Smith) if she noticed any office romances and Phyllis guesses that Pam meant her and Jim. Jim and Pam bond when she sees Jim's room for the first time and looks through his high school yearbook.
After ruining an improv class, Michael decides to crash Jim's party, much to the staff's dismay and Dwight's naïve delight. Michael awkwardly tries his hand at karaoke but Jim then joins in, easing the tension considerably. The documentary crew catches Angela and Dwight making out in Jim's backyard.
"Email Surveillance" was written by Jennifer Celotta, making it her first writing contribution to the series.[2] This episode was the fourth episode of the series directed by Paul Feig. Feig had previously directed the episodes "Office Olympics", "Halloween", and "Performance Review".[3][4][5]
When filming the scene with Michael in the improv class, Ken Jeong, who played Bill, said that "they (the crew) would shoot the scenes as scripted the first few takes, and then we would improvise after that." For example, "the scene where I (Ken Jeong) say 'Good job' to Michael and he says 'Nice job, Bill... not' was improvised."[6] Jeong, who had previously taken part in an actual improv class, noted that "Anyone who's ever taken an improv class appreciates that bit [with Michael starting every session with a gun]."[6]
The episode guest starred Omi Vaidya, who played the part of Sadiq, the IT assistant. Vaidya later explained that, originally, "a lot of people auditioned for that role, bigger Indian American actors". However Vaidya, who had watched the British version and was familiar with the camera style, "took a scarf, created a turban out of it and walked to the audition room with it on" because he thought that "that was what was needed for the character and the show".[7] He later called his guest appearance "one of the best productions in the United States that I have been a part of".[7] Vaidya said that he enjoyed shooting the party scenes the most because they got to drink real beer (rather than a stand-in liquid) and play video games on the then-unreleased Xbox 360 gaming console.[8] Vaidya said that "it was like being at a real party with everyone from The Office except that we had to shoot a few scenes while we were chatting and relaxing."[8]
After Oscar confronts Michael about reading the staff's emails, Michael references Big Brother, from the novel Nineteen Eighty-Four and does an impression of The Tin Man from the 1939 film The Wizard of Oz. Michael invites Dwight over to his house to watch the 2004 version of Battlestar Galactica, but he misidentifies the show as "Battleship Galaxy".[9] At his improv class, Michael, in an attempt to get the instructor's attention, asks "Mr. Kot-ter", a reference to the 1975 series Welcome Back, Kotter. During Jim's party, Phyllis sings a karaoke version of the 1987 hit "Here I Go Again" by hard rock band Whitesnake, and Kevin sings Cake's 1996 cover of "I Will Survive", originally by Gloria Gaynor. Finally, Michael and Jim share a duet of the 1983 single "Islands in the Stream", originally sung by Kenny Rogers and Dolly Parton.[9] At one point during the party, Kevin tells Ryan "Not so fast... 'Fire Guy'". This is a reference to the earlier second season episode "The Fire", in which Ryan accidentally started a fire in the office building. As a result, Dwight and Michael gave him the nickname "The Fire Guy".[9]
"Email Surveillance" originally aired on NBC in the United States on November 22, 2005.[10] The episode was viewed by 8.1 million viewers and received a 3.9 rating/9% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 3.9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode retained 76 percent of its lead-in My Name is Earl audience, and was tied with an episode of the medical drama House as the number one television show in the 18–34 male demographic.[11] An encore presentation of the episode, on June 20, 2006, received 2.1 rating/7% share was viewed by over 5 million viewers, ranking it as the number one program in the 18–34 demographic.[12]
"Email Surveillance" received generally positive reviews from television critics. TV Squad's Michael Sciannamea said that "Email Surveillance" was "a solid episode", and that even though "Michael's vulnerabilities were again exposed", in the end "you walk away from the episode feeling good that he did make it to Jim's party."[13] M. Giant from Television Without Pity graded the episode with an "A−".[9] Dan Phillips from IGN named "Michael Crashes Jim's Party" the fifth most awkward moment of the show, noting that, "Few things are more awkward than a party crasher, especially when the party crasher happens to be named Michael Scott."[14]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B+", and wrote positively of the way the show was able to write-in the presence of the Documentarians into the episode's plot; he compared this to the story arc in the ninth season involving Brian the boom mic operator, noting that the documentarians presence in "Email Surveillance" was much better executed than then the aforementioned Brian plot. He also called the episode's conclusion, featuring Michael and Jim singing a duet, "emotionally satisfying" because it relies "on what these people mean to each other outside of the office".[15]


"The Promotion" is the third episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 103rd episode overall.[1] It was written and directed by Jennifer Celotta and originally aired in the United States on NBC on October 1, 2009.
In this episode, the office struggles to deal with having both Michael and Jim as managers, with Dwight trying to manipulate the office into thinking that Jim will be a horrible boss. Meanwhile, Pam tries to get people to give money as a wedding gift.
The office is trying to adjust to having both Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) as bosses, with Jim moving into a newly built personal office space in the main section. Michael and Jim constantly find themselves at odds with each other as Michael keeps having "conference room meetings" while Jim wants to keep productivity in the office place. They get a call from CFO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) who tells them that not everyone in the branch will get their desired raise and that they will have to decide how to disperse it amongst the employees. Michael gets annoyed when Jim keeps making pros and cons lists for each idea. Jim decides to give the raises to the sales staff since they bring money to the company. Michael is against the idea, but invites Jim to announce it to the office.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), not wanting Jim as a boss, complains about the unfairness of Jim's decision despite being a salesman, as do all the non-sales people. Michael, who was scoffing at Jim, is then asked to give his idea, but he does not speak coherently about it, leading everyone to rail against him as much as Jim. Michael and Jim go back into the conference room to decide how to handle the raise issue. They ultimately decide that the raises should be performance-based, and decide to take turns placing beans on employee pictures, with each bean representing a small raise. When Michael and Jim leave the conference room, Dwight sneaks into the conference room and shows the employees their plan. Everyone gets upset at Michael and Jim for this, particularly Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), whose picture did not have any beans, as Jim was trying to remain unbiased.
With the entire office now upset with both Michael and Jim, Dwight uses this opportunity to start an uprising against Jim personally. However, everyone in the office refuses to as they are more concerned about the raise issue. Michael then goes into Jim's office to check on him. Michael explains he felt terrible having to make those kinds of decisions on his own and he leaves to get Jim something. Jim comments that Michael is currently his only friend in the office at the moment, as everyone else, even probably Pam, is upset at him about the raise situation. Michael returns to give Jim his own new "World's Best Boss" mug and they share some gin together.
Pam is trying to discreetly ask everyone to give cash as wedding gifts instead of actual gifts. She first tries Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) to no avail. She manages to get Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) to write her a $40 check, and starts to feel guilty about asking people for simple cash, but she gets ecstatic when she sees that the check is made out to "Mrs. Pam Halpert". When she then tries Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), he cons her into giving him $50 as a supposed investment in betting on college basketball games.
In its original American broadcast on October 1, 2009, "The Promotion" was seen by 7.28 million households, according to Nielsen ratings. It was a drop in viewership compared to the previous week's episode, "The Meeting". "The Promotion" received a 3.7 rating/10 share among viewers aged between 18 and 49.[2] The episode received generally mixed reviews. Several commentators specifically praised the scene in which Meredith and Creed reveal they previously had sex.[3][4][5][6]
""The Promotion" stands as a perfect marriage between a genuinely funny situation and a number of goofy asides and comedic gags, a formula which always makes for a great episode. Michael and Jim's dynamic grows a lot in this one episode."
Dan Phillips, IGN[4]Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club said the episode "represented both a return to The Office's roots and a bold look at what the future holds for the Dunder-Mifflin gang" due to the Michael and Jim co-manager arrangement. Rabin praised the episode's "sharp little character moments", like Oscar's deadpan speeches and Ryan's gambling schemes.[7] IGN writer Dan Phillips said the episode further developed the relationship between Jim and Michael, and Phillips liked that they found common ground at the end. He also praised "laugh-out-loud gags", like the revelation about Creed and Meredith.[4]
New York magazine writer Will Leitch said it was smart to make Jim a smug, flawed manager, and said "it was impossible not to love the quiet final scene with Michael and Jim bonding over the hatred their co-workers feel for them".[5] Margaret Lyons of Entertainment Weekly said the episode felt like a "placeholder", although she said it improved upon a second viewing. Lyons said the episode had some good moments, "none of these moments seemed tied to the main plot" and was "basically just killing a week until The Big Wedding Episode OMG next Thursday".[3] Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger said "The Promotion" did not live up to a "promising new dynamic" between Michael and Jim set up in the previous episode, "The Meeting". However, Sepinwall said he liked the gifts subplot with Pam, and said Dwight's new role as "the office insurrectionist" has promise.[6]


"Secret Santa" is the thirteenth episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 113th episode overall.[2] It was written by Mindy Kaling and directed by Randall Einhorn. The night the episode premiered, it was immediately followed by an episode of 30 Rock with the same title.
In this episode, the office throws a Christmas party, and Michael is upset when Jim allows Phyllis to be Santa, since he has always been the one to dress up. Meanwhile, Oscar develops a crush on a new warehouse worker, and Andy's secret Santa gift to Erin – the 12 Days of Christmas, featuring live birds – does not go as well as planned.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) comes into the office as Santa and is outraged that Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) had already allowed Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) to be Santa at the office Christmas party this year. Everyone seems to enjoy having Phyllis as Santa, but Michael continues to try to gain attention, prompting Jim to tell him to cease and desist. Michael then rearranges his costume into a Jesus outfit and starts heckling and interrupting Phyllis while she's giving out the Secret Santa gifts. When Jim stops Michael again, Michael calls CFO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) to complain. David asks not to be bothered as someone made an agreement to buy the company, which means that everyone else, including himself, will likely lose their jobs.
Michael calls a conference meeting to try to keep up everyone's spirits but reveals that the company is going out of business, which puts everyone into shock. When Jim asks for confirmation, Michael says that David told him that the company is being sold. Jim notes that being sold could be different from going out of business, so Michael calls back David with everyone listening. David clarifies that he meant that only he, CEO Alan Brand, and a few other executives at corporate would lose their jobs, but the branches would remain because they are the only successful aspect of the company. The office then cheers and goes back to the party, where everyone receives their Secret Santa gifts, and Michael apologizes to Phyllis for trying to overshadow her.
Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nuñez) has a secret crush on Matt (Sam Daly), one of the new warehouse workers. Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) tries to play matchmaker and introduces Matt to Oscar. After conversing a while, Matt leaves, and Oscar asks Pam to let him pursue Matt by himself. Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) explains that his present has been delivered to him in pieces over the course of several weeks.  After his first attempt to assemble it, he believes it is a gun. However, after a hint from Michael, he rebuilds it and realizes it is, in fact, a nutcracker, which pleases him. Additionally, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) had asked to have Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) as his recipient for Secret Santa and decides to give her the Twelve Days of Christmas as his gift to her. However, the gifts — most of which are actual live birds — cause her physical harm, prompting her to publicly ask her Secret Santa to discontinue. Andy asks Phyllis not to reveal him as Erin's Secret Santa, but Michael blurts it out anyways, and she becomes upset with Andy. At the end of the episode, as the office leaves for the night, they are greeted by the "twelve drummers" in the parking lot. Andy joins them and wishes Erin a Merry Christmas, completing his Secret Santa gift to her. They start drumming and Erin is visibly pleased by the gesture.
This episode was watched by 8.51 million viewers, with a 4.2 rating and an 11 share in the 18–49 demographic.[3] IGN's Dan Phillips gave the episode an 8.7/10 saying that "The episode had a lot of great lines; for example Jim eventually shows up with a great line of his own, telling Michael, "You can't yell out 'I need this, I need this!' as you pin down an employee on your lap" and also noting "there have been better, funnier Christmas episodes in the past, but not by all that much".[4]
Five days after the episode first aired on television, Hulu added the producer's cut of the episode to their website. This version includes 9 extra minutes, bringing the total length of the episode to 29:43.[5]


"Gettysburg" is the eighth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 160th episode overall. It was written by Robert Padnick and directed by Jeffrey Blitz. The episode aired on NBC in the United States on November 17, 2011. "Gettysburg" guest stars Lindsey Broad as Cathy Simms.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) takes some of the office staff on a field trip to Gettysburg for inspiration. Meanwhile, the rest of the office, under orders from Robert California (James Spader), are tasked with coming up with a new business idea for Dunder Mifflin. Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) proposes several vending machine ideas that capture California's imagination.
"Gettysburg" is the last episode to feature Jenna Fischer before her maternity leave. The episode received mixed reviews, with commentators mainly criticizing the episode for recycling jokes. According to the Nielsen Media Research, "Gettysburg" drew 5.50 million viewers, and ranked first in its time slot and was the highest-rated NBC show of the night.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) thinks that a field trip to Gettysburg will boost the office morale. Andy is unhappy at Gettysburg with the lack of morale and belief in his leadership and attempts to make an analogy between running a paper company and fighting in the Civil War. Andy starts to lead a haphazard tour, and eventually most of the office members sit down to rest. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) follow Andy after he presses on, and eventually tell him to stop trying to impress the office. They explain that no one is responding to his analogies because they are not true, and reinforce the fact that his co-workers like him the way he is.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) argues with Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez), during the tour, about what he claims is the northernmost battle of the Civil War: the Battle of Schrute Farms. Dwight maintains that its absence from the history books is an example of re-writing history. Oscar maintains that the battle is a fictitious creation. Oscar is annoyed even more when Dwight attempts to convince Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) that the Battle of Schrute Farms is real. Dwight and Oscar learn that the Battle of Schrute Farms did take place, after tracking down an archivist. The "battle" was really a code term. Schrute Farms was a safe haven for artists and poets (and, as heavily implied, homosexuals), during the Civil War. Oscar finds this fascinating, and Dwight leaves in disgust. Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) is sidetracked by people of another tour group who assume that he is an Abraham Lincoln impersonator. He acquiesces and delivers an improvised but applauded performance.
Half of the employees opt to stay at the office. Robert California (James Spader) makes a spontaneous visit, and he asks the remaining people to come up with Dunder Mifflin/Sabre's next big idea. The remaining office people fail to impress Robert with their ideas. Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) details an idea that he has about cookie placement in the vending machine. Robert gets the impression that he is extremely clever and is speaking only in metaphors. The employees try to offer analogies to Kevin's words, but Robert gives credit to Kevin. Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), has been annoyed by the idea of Kevin being creative during the entire day, and with the fact that Robert has been rejecting his ideas. Ryan later tricks Kevin into explaining an idea that Kevin has involving the Big Mac, and Robert realizes that there was no subtext to Kevin's ideas.
The episode was written by story editor Robert Padnick, his second writing credit for the series after joining the writing staff the previous season.[3][4] It was directed by frequent director of The Office, Jeffrey Blitz.[4] The episode also marks the second appearance of Lindsey Broad, who plays Cathy, Pam's replacement during her maternity leave.[5] She appeared in a recurring role for the season.[5] Due to Jenna Fischer's actual pregnancy, "Gettysburg" is the last episode of 2011 to feature Pam.[6] The episode was not filmed on location in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.[7][8] The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt noted that the writers' used Andy's "overeager qualities" to have the office group skip the official tour, allowing for "some random California heritage site" to stand in for the real Gettysburg.[7] The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Andy preparing the office to go to Gettysburg, and Kevin discussing his newfound approval by California.[9] Novak later said that "He thinks Kevin is a genius who speaks in metaphors. Everyone's jealous that Kevin's become his favorite."[10]
In its original American broadcast on NBC on November 17, 2011, "Gettysburg" was viewed by an estimated 5.50 million viewers and received a 2.9 rating/7 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[11] This means that it was seen by 2.9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 7 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode marked a three percent decrease in the ratings from the previous episode, "Pam's Replacement".[11] Despite this, the episode ranked first in its timeslot, beating the Fox drama series, Bones which received a 2.7 rating/7 percent share, CBS drama, Person of Interest which received a 2.6 rating/7 percent share in the 18–49 demographic, and the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) medical drama, Private Practice which received a 2.6 rating/7 percent share, although all three shows received more total viewers than "Gettysburg".[11]
"Gettysburg" received mixed reviews from critics, ranging from negative to slightly positive. Hollywood writer Hannah Lawrence was heavily critical of the episode and wrote, "This episode seemed like a joke to me. I really didn't like it."[12] What Culture! reviewer Joseph Kratzer gave the episode three out of five stars and wrote, "While the episode was technically satisfactory, it didn't carry much momentum."[13] McNutt referred to the "Battle of Schrute Farms" gag as a "payoff," but was overall negative. He concluded that although "The Office is still capable of finding humor in ... situations [but] it doesn't feel like the show is willing to explore that humor, instead content on making the same statements the show has been making for quite some time."[7]  He ultimately gave it a "C−".[7]
Not all reviews were negative. IGN writer Cindy White awarded the episode 7 out of 10, signifying a "good" episode. However, she heavily criticized the recycling of story lines, writing, "It may have been heartwarming in the premiere, but now it feels repetitive, and it's still not funny."[8] M. Giant of Television Without Pity gave the episode a "B−".[14] Chris Plante from New York wrote a generally positively review, saying "No episode has done the ensemble work better than 'Gettysburg', a kind of sitcom buffet, its many stories giving the audience a small taste of every personality. That isn't to say every character has been fleshed out well. ... Andy and California seem off point."[15]
The episode's opening, featuring Pam Halpert (Fischer) faking her water breaking, received mixed reviews. White called the sequence her "favorite part" and felt an empathetic connection to the character.[8] Kratzer claimed that he enjoyed the scene.[13] McNutt, however, wrote that the opening concludes that "Pam and Jim are basically total jerks".[7]


"Roy's Wedding" is the second episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 178th episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC on September 27, 2012. The episode guest stars David Denman as Roy Anderson, Michael Patrick McGill as his brother, Kenny, Robert R. Shafer as Bob Vance, and Ameenah Kaplan as Val.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Pam (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) are invited to the wedding of Roy Anderson (Denman) –  Pam's former fiancé. Roy's wedding toast later leads to Pam and Jim searching their relationship for any secrets that the other might not know about. Jim, however, hides the fact that he has started a company with a college friend, and Pam grows more and more suspicious. Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) reacts to Nellie Bertram's (Catherine Tate) mandatory charity initiative by announcing he will donate to the Taliban.
"Roy's Wedding" saw the return of Denman as Roy, who was a regular character in the show's first three seasons. The episode received moderately positive reviews from critics. Many applauded the emotional drama in Pam and Jim's storyline. However, many reviews gave the episode's two subplots mixed reviews. "Roy's Wedding" was viewed by an estimated 4.13 million viewers and received a 2.1 rating/6 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode ranked fourth in its timeslot and was also the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
In the cold open, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) creates a chore wheel after the office janitor is on vacation, but everyone else in the office complains that it is no fun. Pam changes the wheel so that it barely relates to chores or work at all, which goes over well. Pam adds a "tiny wheel" as an option that does have chores on them, but "it's so cute, no one seems to mind."
Pam and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) are invited to Pam's former fiancé Roy Anderson's (David Denman) wedding, which takes place at 8 am before work. They are surprised by Roy's beautiful home and the elegant wedding details, and Roy tells them he runs a very successful gravel company. During his wedding toast, Roy stuns his bride by performing "She's Got a Way" by Billy Joel on the piano; he told her he was taking boxing lessons as a cover for learning some music. Pam and Jim, stunned by Roy's transformation, try to find things about themselves the other does not know. This is exacerbated by Jim's frequent calls about a new business he is starting with a friend, because Jim and Pam agreed that the venture was not right for them, but Jim then signed onto it without telling his wife he had done so. Pam tries unsuccessfully to bait Jim to find out what the secret is and becomes increasingly annoyed that her husband is lying to her.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) angrily reacts to Nellie Bertram's (Catherine Tate) mandatory charity initiative by maintaining that he will donate the money he raises to the Global Relief Foundation, a front for the Taliban. Nellie then makes Dwight sign a contract in "a ridiculous font" to live by Taliban rules in the office, the font making Dwight believe that the contract is not genuine. Subsequently, she steals Dwight's pen and challenges him to cut her hand off for doing so, hoping he will capitulate and pick a legitimate charity. Dwight refuses to back down, but spends an inordinate amount of time preparing to do so before the two end up watching 127 Hours together upon the advice of Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), and end up forgetting the issue.
Clark Green (Clark Duke) hits on Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) by dangling a fake newscaster job. After receiving some not-so-helpful advice from her coworkers—especially Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) and Darryl, who is now assistant regional manager—Clark invites Erin to his apartment for the fake audition. However, Pete Miller (Jake Lacy), who has come to dislike Clark, invites himself and Andy along under the pretense of helping with the audition, ruining Clark's seduction plan. Andy ends up throwing himself into the fake plan and dismissing Erin, who goes out for dinner with Pete and enjoys time spent with him.
"Roy's Wedding" was written by co-executive producer Allison Silverman, marking her second writing credit after joining the series the previous season and writing the episode, "Pam's Replacement".[3][4] The episode was directed by series cinematographer Matt Sohn, marking his sixth director's credit for the series.[3] This episode sees the return of David Denman as Roy Anderson. Roy was a regular character in the show's first three seasons. Denman's character was written out of the show near the end of the series' third season, although he did have small cameos in the fifth season episode "Crime Aid" and in the seventh season episode "Threat Level Midnight".[5] On Twitter, Denman later called the episode "Roy's best episode!"[6] The episode's subplot was announced by showrunner Greg Daniels early on via a press release; he noted that Dwight would be trying to spite Nellie by trying to donate to the Taliban.[7]
The official website of The Office included several cut scenes from "Roy's Wedding" within a week of the episode's release. In the first 57-second clip, Darryl talks about his relationship with Roy and Pam talks to Roy's parents, who make subtle barbs about her lack of loyalty.[8] In the second 84-second clip, Oscar (Oscar Nunez) notes that he is supporting a charity that supports the "homo-hispanic community", and Toby (Paul Lieberstein) notes that he wants to support a charity that helps "inconspicuous creatures" like moths.[9]
Andy chooses Darryl to be consigliere, a reference to the 1972 crime film The Godfather; one brief scene in the episode in which Darryl accepts the position parallels the final scene of The Godfather.[10] Darryl later notes that he likes The Godfather because he is a "cinephile", but that he likes the 1983 film Scarface because he is black.[11] Clark tries to start up a conversation with Erin about Newsweek. Later, while discussing news anchors, Meredith mentions how attractive she found Walter Cronkite.[12] Dwight and Nellie watch 127 Hours, a 2010 biographical survival drama film starring James Franco as real-life canyoneer Aron Ralston, who became trapped by a boulder in an isolated slot canyon in Bluejohn Canyon, southeastern Utah, in April 2003, and was eventually forced to amputate his own right arm in order to free himself.
"Roy's Wedding" originally aired on NBC on September 27, 2012.[2] The episode was viewed by 4.13 million viewers and received a 2.1/6 percent share in the 18–49 demographic.[13] This means that it was seen by 2.1 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[13] The episode stayed consistent when compared to the season opener "New Guys".[13] The Office finished fourth in its time slot, being beaten by an episode of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which received a 4.4/12 percent rating; an entry of the CBS drama Person of Interest, which received a 2.9/8 percent rating; and an installment of the Fox series Glee, which received a 2.4/7 percent rating.[13] "Roy's Wedding", however, finished ahead of repeats of The CW show The Next. The Office was also the highest-rated NBC television program of the night.[13]
"Roy's Wedding" received moderately positive reviews from critics. Many applauded the emotional drama in Pam and Jim's storyline. The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt praised the Jim-Pam storyline and Daniels for using the previous seasons of Jim and Pam's "boring storylines" to create greater drama for this episode and for the season as a whole. He also complimented the change of dynamic the episode caused, saying that by "allowing Jim and Pam to serve as the point of dramatic interest, the rest of the characters are loosened up to simply riff off of one another, a dynamic that felt bogged down by Andy's ascension to the leadership position last season". He rated the episode a "B".[11] New York writer Michael Tedder praised the writers for going back to the show's early style of ongoing plotlines and the suspense in the Jim-Pam arc.[12] Bonnie Stiernberg of Paste was not so positive, saying the whole episode and season storyline was "predictable" and a "wasted opportunity", and that it ultimately did not live up to the producers' promise to "shake things up in Scranton". Stiernberg rated the episode a 6.8 out of 10.[14]
The episode's subplots, however, received mixed reviews. McNutt wrote that, while Tate had given a "rather subtle and charming performance", the Nellie-Dwight subplot felt like "a leftover idea" from the previous season.[11] Tedder, on the other hand, liked the Dwight-Nellie subplot for its silliness, concluding that "ongoing plotlines are great, but it's still the little things on this show".[12]
McNutt was not pleased with the characterization of Andy in the episode, calling him "insufferable" and "plain unlikeable". He also noted that Clark and Pete's prominence in the subplot, while enjoyable, seemed "weird for one part of the show to be invested in exploring characters' lives when another part of the show is deploying newly introduced characters".[11] Tedder complimented the Erin-Clark subplot, for examining and introducing Pete and Clark further, and called Clark the "New Ryan".[12] Stiernberg, on the other hand, considered the whole plot to be "too icky and unfunny" and that the aftermath of Pete and Erin's dinner together was "predictable".[14]

"Secretary's Day" is the twenty-second episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 122nd episode overall. It aired on April 22, 2010, on NBC. It was written by Mindy Kaling, who portrays Kelly Kapoor on the series, and is also the second episode in the series[1] directed by Steve Carell, who also portrays Michael Scott.
In the episode, Andy tries to make his girlfriend Erin's Secretary's Day a special day, but things do not turn out well when Erin learns of Andy's previous relationship with Angela. Meanwhile, Oscar's video goes viral because he compares Kevin's voice to the Cookie Monster's, causing Gabe to try to assert his authority in the office.
It is Secretary's Day, and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) tries to make Erin Hannon's (Ellie Kemper) day a memorable one. He convinces a reluctant Michael Scott (Steve Carell) to take her to lunch at a place of her choosing. Michael is highly uncomfortable, as he thinks Erin is boring. During lunch, Erin asks Michael to tell her about Andy before she joined the staff, and he mentions that Andy was previously engaged to fellow office worker Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), a fact which Andy had concealed from Erin, to Michael's surprise. Upon learning about the engagement, Erin tries to conceal a fit by wrapping her hair around her face, and is silent on the drive back to the office. During the main party, when Andy starts to play a song he wrote for Erin, she throws cake in his face and reveals her knowledge of his engagement to Angela. Though Pam Halpert tries to persuade her that Andy's engagement to Angela is unimportant, revealing that she also was engaged to another co-worker before marrying Jim Halpert, Erin decides she can't trust Andy anymore and breaks up with him. At the end of the day, Michael cheers her up with some jokes and Andy notes that at least someone has made her happy on Secretary's Day.
Oscar Martinez makes a hilarious video, which dubs Kevin's voice over footage of Cookie Monster. Oscar's video goes viral and is a hit with the staff, and they continuously make fun of Kevin with Cookie Monster impersonations. Kevin complains to Gabe Lewis about their teasing. In an effort to assert his fledgling authority, Gabe bans the office from talking about the video or Cookie Monster. When the jokes continue, Gabe suspends Pam without pay for contradicting his orders, then Jim for defending her, and then even Dwight Schrute for applauding Gabe's punishments. Pam consults Toby Flenderson about this, and after looking into it he informs her that Gabe can ask people to not come in but does not have the authority to dock their pay. Meanwhile, Gabe learns from corporate that he cannot reprimand or suspend people. But rather than admit his mistake to Pam, Jim, and Dwight, he decides to salvage his pride by saying he will revoke the suspension if they apologize. Pam and Jim decline, thus effectively getting a two-day paid vacation, while Dwight apologizes and kisses Gabe's hand instead, as Jim and Pam neglected to share Toby's information with him. After Jim and Pam leave, Gabe decides to save face and mock Kevin as well, but does a poor impression. Kevin retaliates by doing an impression of Gabe, and the rest of the office joins his mockery.
At the end of the episode, Kevin tries to get revenge by dubbing Oscar's voice over footage of Count von Count, his rationale being that the Count counts and Oscar is an accountant. To his frustration, Kevin gets lots of bad reviews from everyone, many of whom agreeing it would have been funnier to dub Oscar's voice over footage of Oscar the Grouch. The Crew doesn't find it hilarious, only Michael finds it funny, but Kevin is satisfied with this, not even minding when Michael calls him "Cookie Monster".
In its original American broadcast, "Secretary's Day" was watched by 6.30 million viewers, with a 3.2 rating and a 9 share in the 18–49 demographic.[2]


"Training Day" is the twentieth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 146th episode overall. It originally aired on NBC on April 14, 2011. The episode was written by Daniel Chun and directed by Paul Lieberstein. This episode marks the first appearance of Deangelo Vickers (Will Ferrell) in the series.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott's (Steve Carell) replacement appears in the office, to start receiving training from Michael. The new manager, Deangelo Vickers (Will Ferrell), has everyone hoping to make good first impressions: Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) finds himself awkwardly typecast while Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) worry that they've come on too strong. Only Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) is apathetic about the new leader.
"Training Day" received mixed reviews from television critics, with many commenting on Ferrell's appearance. The episode was also viewed by 4.16 million viewers and received a 4.0/11 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking first in its timeslot. The episode ultimately ranked as the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is waiting in a hotel bar for his replacement Deangelo Vickers (Will Ferrell) to show up. While waiting, he meets a man at the bar and the two instantly hit it off. When Michael calls Vickers to see where he is, it is revealed that the man Michael has been talking to is actually Deangelo, though it takes the two some time to actually realize this.
Deangelo comes to the branch the next day, and most of the staff is eager to make a good first impression. Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) wears his toupee, Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) believe they have started off well by mentioning their baby, and Deangelo designates Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) as the office "funny guy" when he reveals that he carries name tags around to avoid situations like the one Deangelo and Michael were in. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) is not pleased that he was not selected to replace Michael, believing that Michael put in a good recommendation for him. Though Deangelo's introduction goes smoothly, Michael becomes disturbed when Deangelo wants to make some changes, such as how Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) answers the phone.
While Deangelo gets annoyed with Jim and Pam, he loves the antics of Andy, who has resorted to physical comedy when his jokes fall flat, getting to the point where he pours hot coffee on his pants and (at Deangelo's urging) eats soap; Andy tells the camera with dazed sadness that "this is my life now". Deangelo's popularity with the employees causes Michael to get jealous to the point where he passes out peanut butter sandwiches, despite Deangelo's peanut allergy. Deangelo then assembles the staff in the "multipurpose room", including Dwight, who learned from Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) that Michael did not put in a recommendation and thus snubs Michael. Jim quietly tells Michael that he chose to resign his job and needs to come to terms with both that choice and the fact that life is going to go on at the office. Deangelo then steps out of his meeting and asks Michael for advice for how to run the meeting, saying that he is a good manager and Dunder Mifflin will not be the same without him. The two make up with a reverse hug, Deangelo telling him that he should start enjoying his retirement. Michael returns to his office while Deangelo conducts his meeting in the conference room.
In another effort to impress Deangelo, Jim and Pam bring in Cece, to which Deangelo reacts positively. While they celebrate getting back on his good side, Deangelo reveals to the camera that he is in fact indifferent to Cece and was just being polite.
The episode was written by co-executive producer Daniel Chun, his fourth writing credit of the series. It was directed by then-showrunner Paul Lieberstein, his sixth directing credit of the series. The episode marked the first appearance of Will Ferrell's four-episode arc on the series and is also one of series star Carell's last episodes as a regular on the series.[2] Ferrell signed on to appear in Steve Carell's final three episodes, and the first episode without Carell, "The Inner Circle", to make Carell's transition easier.[2] Carell had decided to leave the series, because "I just think it's time... I want to fulfill my contract. When I first signed on I had a contract for seven seasons, and this coming year is my seventh. I just thought it was time for my character to go".[3] Ferrell initially called the producers and offered to appear in Carell's last season, because he is "a fan and wanted to commemorate Carell’s swan song".[2] He had previously starred alongside Carell, in the 2004 film, Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy.[2]
The Season Seven DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. The cut scenes include a sequence in which Michael and Deangelo discuss cancer jokes and the 2010 film Megamind—an animated film that featured the voice of Ferrell—while drinking vodka, shots of Michael and Deangelo discussing their enjoyment for coffee, and Dwight attempting to appease his new boss.[4]
In its original American broadcast, "Training Day" was viewed by an estimated 7.871 million viewers and received a 4.0 rating/11% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[5] This means that it was seen by 4.0% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a rise in the ratings from the previous episode, "Garage Sale", which can be attributed to Ferrell's guest appearance.[5][6] The episode ranked first in its timeslot, beating the Fox crime drama Bones, which scored a 3.5/10 percent relating in the 18–49 demographic; a rerun of the ABC medical drama Grey's Anatomy and a rerun of the CBS crime drama CSI: Crime Scene Investigation.[5]
"Training Day" received mixed reviews from television critics. IGN writer Cindy White wrote that Deangelo was not given a proper introduction and that he was not distinguished from Michael's character. She also went on to criticize Jim, Pam and Dwight's reaction to Deangelo as the new manager, particular that of Jim and Pam, writing that "it's becoming painfully obvious that the longtime writers don't know what to do with them anymore". However, she concluded that the episode continued the seventh season's improvement over the sixth, and that it showed potential for future episodes of the season. She ultimately gave the episode a 7.5 out of 10 rating, denoting a "good" episode.[7] The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt praised Michael's reactions to the office easily ignoring him for Deangelo, calling the final shot of him walking into his office alone "quite effective", and that Dwight's reaction to not being suggested to be Michael's replacement made it more "meaningful". Despite this, he continued by saying that the series was not "sophisticated" enough to use this plotline effectively and criticized the writing for the cast, which made them look "stupid" for "cheap humor" and a "enormously shallow laughter". He ultimately gave the episode a "C+".[8] Alan Sepinwall, a columnist for HitFix, complimented the chemistry between Ferrell and Carell, but criticized the storyline which eventually came down to Michael "being petulant about not being the center of attention every minute of every day", negatively comparing it to "Viewing Party". Despite this, he noted that Ferrell's presence did involve several funny moments.[9]
Bonnie Stiernberg, for Paste, was more positive, writing that she preferred the use of comedy, following the emotional episode, "Garage Sale". She ultimately gave it an 8.7 out of 10.[10] Will Ferrell's performance was especially noted by critics. McNutt complimented Ferrell's "nuanced" performance, but called his character "uninteresting".[8] Stiernberg praised his dynamic with Carell, comparing it to their previous roles in Anchorman.[10] His later appearances in the series also received similar mixed reviews[11][12] For instance, McNutt called Ferrell's scenes a "momentum killer" in "Goodbye, Michael",[13] whereas Rob Sheffield of Rolling Stone called his performance in the same episode "pure magic".[14]


"The Fire" is the fourth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's tenth episode overall. Written by B. J. Novak and directed by Ken Kwapis, the episode first aired in the United States on October 11, 2005, on NBC. The episode features Amy Adams as Jim's girlfriend, Katy.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) takes it upon himself to teach Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) about business, but soon everyone is forced to evacuate the office due to a fire. While outside, Michael continues to show an interest in Ryan, causing Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) to be jealous. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) organizes games to play outside.
According to B. J. Novak, the episode was "a fun one to film". Although the cast and crew appear to be cold in the finished episode, "The Fire" was filmed in 100 °F (38 °C) weather; thus, the actors "couldn't look hot" and had to pretend to shiver. The firemen in the scene were played by actual firemen, and their costumes were designed in order to look like authentic Scranton firefighters.
Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) learns that Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Katy Moore (Amy Adams) have started dating. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) gives Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) a glowing checkpoint review. When Ryan expresses his interest in starting his own business someday, Michael takes it upon himself to teach Ryan the "ten rules of business". The fire alarm sounds, and while Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) both attempt to take charge of the evacuation, Michael pushes others out of the way in his escape out of the building.
The employees play games to pass the time, including "Desert Island Picks" and "Who Would You Do?" When Ryan reveals that he is attending business school at night, Michael becomes enamored of his newfound protégé. Dwight becomes noticeably jealous of Ryan's favor with Michael, and he is seen sulking in his car to the tune "Everybody Hurts" by R.E.M. When Michael mentions that he left his cell phone in the office, Dwight rushes back into the building to fetch it.
Michael asks Ryan to call his cell phone to help Dwight find it. The phone rings, which happens to be in Michael's pocket. Dwight emerges, coughing, from the building and reveals that the fire was started by Ryan, who left a cheese pita in the toaster-oven set to "oven" instead of "toaster". Dwight and Michael mock Ryan and dub him "The Fire Guy" by doing a song parody of the Billy Joel song "We Didn't Start the Fire".
"The Fire" was the fourth episode of the series directed by Ken Kwapis. Kwapis had previously directed "Pilot", "Diversity Day", and "Sexual Harassment". "The Fire" was written by B. J. Novak, who also acts on the show as Ryan Howard.[2] Novak had previously penned the episodes "Diversity Day" and "Sexual Harassment".[3] "The Fire" featured the second appearance of Katy, portrayed by Amy Adams. Adams thoroughly enjoyed her work on the show.[4] In an interview with Advocate.com, she said, "[The Office] was the best work experience. I loved that show and that cast so much. I don't know if they believe me, but every time I see them I'm like, 'Oh my gosh, I'll do anything to come back.'"[4]
Novak described the episode as "a fun one to film".[2] The episode was filmed in 100 °F (38 °C) weather, but according to cast member B. J. Novak, they "couldn't look hot". The area outside the building was shot in Van Nuys, California in what Novak called a "bad area": he later noted that they "had to pretend we weren't scared, even though every car that is left next to our set overnight is stripped to the bone for parts."[2] Greg Daniels noted that during the filming of "The Fire", the cast and crew kept being interrupted by the sound of helicopters.[5]  The firemen in the scene were played by actual firemen.[2] The crew of The Office had someone in Scranton take photographs of local firefighters' uniforms, so the costumes would be accurate.[6] However, in an interview with the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Scranton firefighter Art Franklin pointed out that the uniform is actually tan, instead of the black ones seen on the show.[7]
When lecturing Ryan, Michael compares himself to Yoda and Mr. Miyagi. When he later attempts to do a Yoda voice, Ryan misinterprets it as an impression of Fozzie Bear (notably, both characters are portrayed by puppeteer Frank Oz). When Dwight is dejectedly listening to music in his car, he is playing "Everybody Hurts" by R.E.M. Dwight and Michael's "Ryan Started the Fire" is a thinly veiled song parody of the Billy Joel song "We Didn't Start the Fire".[8]
During the game of desert island, many of the employees reference specific films and books. Angela says she would take The Bible, A Purpose Driven Life, and The Da Vinci Code, but only to burn the latter. Dwight notes that he would take the Physicians' Desk Reference, but hollow it out and fill it with supplies; he also states he would bring Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone or Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban in case he got bored. Meredith later reveals that she would bring Legends of the Fall, My Big Fat Greek Wedding, Legally Blonde, The Bridges of Madison County, and "just the pottery scene" from Ghost to watch. Pam picks Fargo, Edward Scissorhands, Dazed and Confused, The Breakfast Club, and The Princess Bride. After asking what Dwight would bring, he says The Crow.[8]
"The Fire" originally aired on NBC in the United States on October 11, 2005.[9] The episode was viewed by 7.6 million viewers and received a 3.7 rating/9% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 3.7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode won its timeslot.[10] An encore presentation of the episode, on June 6, 2006, received 1.9 rating/6% share and was viewed by over 4.6 million viewers.[11]
"The Fire" received mostly positive reviews from critics. TV Squad's Michael Sciannamea wrote that "The Fire" was "another good episode". Sciannamea went on to write that "show has definitely improved and it's nice to see the other characters emerge".[12] "Miss Alli" of Television Without Pity graded the episode with a "B+".[8] Dwight's reinterpretation of "We Didn't Start the Fire" inspired fans of The Office to make their own song parodies. One version, aptly titled "Ryan Started the Fire", lists several events from The Office, much like the original. After posting the song, Margaret Lyons from Entertainment Weekly wrote, "Yay for the Internet!"[13]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode an "A−", noting that "'The Fire' is not the second season's funniest half-hour, but I love it for its simplicity."[14] Writing that the episode bore similarities to a bottle episode, he enjoyed the way that the conversations among the employees allowed the audience to more fully understand all of the individual characters better. Adams also praised the interaction between Carell and Novak, as well as the performance of Wilson, which he called "unsettling".[14]


"Conflict Resolution" is the twenty-first and penultimate episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office the show's twenty-seventh episode overall. Written by executive producer and show runner Greg Daniels and directed by Charles McDougall, "Conflict Resolution" first aired in the United States on May 4, 2006, on NBC.  The episode guest stars Scott Adsit, from Moral Orel and 30 Rock, as a photographer.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company.  In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) resolves a conflict between Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), and then discovers a file of other unresolved complaints between staff members and he determines to resolve them.  But Michael's attempts actually unearth old tensions and create new ones between the office employees.  Meanwhile, an unkind comment from Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) about being transferred causes Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) to seriously rethink his work situation.
"Conflict Resolution" features the return of a poster created for the earlier episode "Christmas Party". The ending of the installment bears a striking similarity to the ending of the 1981 action film Raiders of the Lost Ark. Receiving largely positive reviews, the episode received a 3.7 Nielsen rating and was watched by 7.4 million viewers.
When Michael Scott (Steve Carell) hears Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) complaining about Angela Martin's (Angela Kinsey) baby poster to Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein), he intervenes and resolves the conflict by forcing Oscar to wear the poster like a t-shirt. Inspired, Michael wrestles the file outlining other unresolved office complaints from Toby, determined to resolve them all. Michael publicly reads all the outstanding complaints, even though they were supposed to be anonymous, which only serves to further increase office tensions. Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) is angered by a redacted complaint that she plans her wedding during office hours. She concludes that the complaint was filed by Angela, which particularly angers her as she is covering for Angela's secret relationship with Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson).
When photos for identification badges are being taken in the break room, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) makes Dwight's new ID 5x7 inches, labels Dwight as a security threat, and changes his middle name from Kurt to "Fart". Dwight becomes even more furious that his voluminous complaints against Jim have gone ignored, and tells Michael that either Jim gets fired or Dwight will quit. When Michael reads all of Jim's pranks on Dwight, Jim begins to regret how much time he has wasted at the office. Dwight taunts Jim with a notice of a Dunder-Mifflin position in Stamford, saying that Jim should look into it. Michael surveys the angry, divided office and nods to a watching Toby, acknowledging his efforts were a disaster. He defuses Dwight's anger by saying he will make his decision but needs indeterminate time to do so, which placates Dwight.
As everyone prepares to leave, Michael pays the photographer (Scott Adsit) to take a special group photo, but goes through a lot of money before he, albeit poorly, photoshops one himself. During the procedure, Jim admits to Pam that he had registered the complaint about her wedding planning, and Pam looks shocked. The next day, Jim secretly sees Vice President Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) for an interview about a transfer.
"Conflict Resolution" was the fifth episode of the series written by Greg Daniels, who is also the executive producer and show runner for The Office. The episode was the third of the series directed by Charles McDougall; he had previously directed the earlier season two episodes "Christmas Party" and "Dwight's Speech".[2][3] The episode features Angela and Oscar arguing over Angela's poster of two babies playing saxophones.  Jenna Fischer said that "As a cast, the baby poster is one of our favorite props... Angela received the poster from her Secret Santa in the Christmas episode."[4] Fischer went on to say that "I had to stand in between Angela and Oscar as they bicker about the poster while Michael tries to mediate the situation. The whole time, the cute jazz babies are staring at me from the poster. It was hilarious!"[4]
The Season Two DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Dwight finding his desk encircled in police tape, Dwight annoying the photographer in various ways, Michael discussing conflict and conflict resolution and dedicating himself to resolving all the old cases "before Toby can kill or rape another person", Dwight giving Pam "Level Red" security clearance, Meredith and Kevin getting their pictures taken, and Dwight being hassled by building security.[5]
The ending of "Conflict Resolution" bears a striking similarity to the ending of the 1981 action film Raiders of the Lost Ark. In the film, the Ark of the Covenant is boarded up and hidden away in a secret government warehouse containing thousands of identical boxes. In "Conflict Resolution", Toby is seen taking the box of complaints and placing it in a warehouse containing hundreds of other identical paper boxes.[6]
"Conflict Resolution" originally aired on NBC in the United States on May 4, 2006.[7] The episode received a 3.7/9 among 18- to 49-year-olds in the Nielsen ratings.  This means that 3.7 percent of all people 18–49 viewed the episode, and nine percent of all people 18–49 watching television viewed the episode.  "Conflict Resolution" was watched by 7.4 million viewers overall, and retained 93 percent of viewers 18–49 from its lead-in My Name is Earl.[8]
The episode received generally good reviews from critics. Terry Morrow, of the Knoxville News Sentinel, stated that "But better yet, this episode defines what The Office does best. It turns mundane work events – like having new security-badge photos taken – into insightful and witty character studies." Morrow also praised the acting in the episode, which he called "one of this show's finest moments."[9] Michael Sciannamea, of TV Squad, stated that "After a so-so episode last week, this was one was a return to brilliance." Like Morrow, Sciannamea went on to praise the work of the cast, stating that "The interplay between the cast was top-notch, and even though I've complained much about Dwight's over-the-top behavior, it seemed to work quite well this time around, and actually had a purpose to the story."[10] M. Giant of Television Without Pity awarded the episode a rare "A+". He called the scene wherein Michael reads aloud Dwight's complaints "my favorite sequence in The Office history, if not sitcom history."[6]


"The Duel" is the twelfth episode of the fifth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 84th overall episode. In the episode, Andy learns his fiancee Angela is having an affair with Dwight, and the two challenge each other to a physical fight to win her affections. Meanwhile, Michael travels to New York City for a meeting with David Wallace, where Wallace seeks managerial advice from Michael due to the poor financial condition of the fictional company, Dunder Mifflin.
The episode was written by Jennifer Celotta and directed by Dean Holland, the show's long-time editor making his directorial debut. It featured the conclusion of the love triangle between Dwight, Andy and Angela, a subplot that had been going on since the end of the fourth season. David Wallace's meeting with Michael marked the show's first acknowledgment of the economic crisis facing much of the globalized nation at the time of the episode due to the financial crisis of 2007–2010.
"The Duel" was seen as a defining episode for Andy Bernard, who is portrayed in a more sympathetic way than he has been seen in previous episodes. Ed Helms was particularly praised for his performance. Several bits of dialogue were improvised, especially during the duel scene between Andy and Dwight. That scene was shot over the course of six hours in an exterior parking lot set, with Helms and Wilson providing their own stunts.
The episode received generally positive reviews, and was largely described as an effective conclusion to the love triangle subplot. According to Nielsen Media Research, "The Duel" was seen by 8.35 million viewers. During its original American broadcast, it received particularly strong competition from the CBS drama series CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, which that night featured the final appearance of actor William Petersen.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) still has not learned about his fiancee Angela Martin's (Angela Kinsey) affair with Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), seventeen days after Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) revealed it to everyone else in the Dunder Mifflin office. Michael Scott (Steve Carell), who has since learned the news as well, suggests he should be the one to inform Andy, but the entire office argues that Angela should be the one to break the news. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) is particularly concerned that Andy's past anger management issues may lead to violence. Dwight tries convincing Angela to tell Andy, but she continues to put it off despite claiming to Dwight that she loves him. This refusal, along with wanting to avoid the ensuing conflict, leaves Michael to tell Andy before he leaves for a meeting with David Wallace (Andy Buckley), leaving Andy shocked and dismayed. Angela reluctantly confirms the affair occurred, but also tells Andy that she loves him, and Andy realizes everybody else in the office already knew about it.
Andy confronts Dwight and challenges him to a "duel" in the parking lot, with Angela as a prize to the winner. Dwight accepts and Angela, anxious to avoid making a choice between the two men herself, says she will honor the results of the duel. Jim, acting as office manager in Michael's absence, tries to talk them out of the duel and confiscates Dwight's hidden weapons around the office, but concedes he does not have the power to prevent a fight outside the office. In New York, Michael is nervous about why David Wallace wants to meet with him. But as the meeting begins, David tells him Scranton is the most successful Dunder Mifflin branch amid a difficult economic climate, and he wants to learn why Michael's management has been so successful. Michael is delighted with the compliment and attention, but can only manage vague, off-topic and largely nonsensical answers. David claims it is difficult for someone to make a self-evaluation, and Michael leaves the meeting in a very pleasant mood.
In the parking lot, Andy has not shown up for the duel, instead leaving a deliberately verbose note hanging in the bushes saying he has given up. As Dwight reads it, Andy sneaks up behind him in his Toyota Prius, a hybrid car that remains completely silent when driven below five miles per hour due to the electric motor. Impressed by Andy's deviousness, the rest of the office does not warn Dwight, saying that Andy "deserves the win". Andy pins Dwight between the car and the large bushes in the parking lot. Dwight, having no weapons, whips the car with his belt. Jim races out to check that Dwight is not seriously injured, but they snap at him to go away. The two bicker back and forth about Angela, leading to Andy revealing that he has had sex with Angela, despite previous assumptions that only Dwight had done so. Realizing that Angela played them both, Dwight and Andy both admit defeat and return to the office, where Andy calls to cancel his wedding cake, and Dwight throws away a bobblehead doll Angela previously bought him as a gift. A saddened Angela realizes she has lost both men.
"The Duel" was written by Jennifer Celotta, a producer and show runner with The Office.[2] The episode featured the conclusion of the love triangle between Dwight, Andy and Angela, a subplot that had been going on since the fourth season finale, "Goodbye, Toby". The cast and writing staff saw "The Duel" as a defining episode for Andy Bernard because it demonstrated a softer, more emotional side of the character. Dean Holland, who directed the episode, said this was particularly effective because in past episodes, he displayed such rage problems that he had to attend anger management courses, but in "The Duel" he responded to horrible news in a heartrending way.[3] Rainn Wilson particularly praised Ed Helms' performance, saying, "He gives a lot of heart and soul, and Andy is such a doofus and a douche, and now you really get to see his heart break. There's some reality there. That's the great thing this show gives us, just when you think you know the characters and they're two-dimensional and they're goofy and crazy, in their own way, you get real human redemption."[4]
The subplot with David Wallace seeking managerial advice from Michael due to the poor financial condition of Dunder Mifflin was the first acknowledgment of the economic crisis facing much of the globalized nation at the time of the episode due to the financial crisis of 2007–2010.[5][6] This set the stage for a continuing motif of financial difficulties for Dunder Mifflin, which would eventually culminate in the sixth season episode "Secret Santa", in which it is revealed the company has been sold and its executives all fired.[7]
A number of scenes and lines in "The Duel" were improvised by the actors. During one scene, Michael repeatedly tries to tell Andy about Angela's affair, but Jim constantly interrupts him while forcing him into his office. John Krasinski improvised most of his lines and noises, and Wilson said they were so funny, "I was just chortling over at my desk."[4] The scene as it appears in the episode consists of about six different takes spliced together.[3] Krasinski also conceived a moment in "The Duel" when Jim returns to his desk by awkwardly passing through Dwight and Andy while they are facing off against each other. Wilson called the addition to the scene "a really nice touch".[4] During another scene, Dwight sings a nursery rhyme that goes, "Learn your rules, you better learn your rules, if you don't, you'll be eaten in your sleep!" Celotta and Wilson came up with several versions of the song, but the one that appeared in the final episode was conceived by Wilson.[3]
A line in which Dwight tells Andy that Angela "certainly seems to enjoy making lovemaking" was improvised by Wilson.[4] Much of the dialogue between Andy and Dwight during the duel scene was also improvised. It was writer Paul Lieberstein, who served as show runner along with Celotta at the time, who suggested the idea of Andy sneaking up on Dwight with his Toyota Prius.[8] The original script called for the entire office cast to come down to the parking lot from the Dunder Mifflin office to try to stop Dwight and Andy from fighting. However, the staging proved awkward during filming, so John Krasinski suggested that only Jim go down to the parking lot while the others stayed behind, and the change was eventually incorporated into the episode.[4]
"The Duel" marked the directorial debut of Dean Holland, a longtime film editor with The Office. The original cut of the episode was 38 minutes long and Holland, who edited it himself, had to trim it down to 22 minutes.[3] During a cold open scene, the Dunder Mifflin employees run past a radar speed sign in the street and compete for the best speed. This was inspired by Aaron Shure, a television producer and The Office screenwriter, who worked on the staff of another television show that held races in front of a radar speed sign in exactly the same way.[8] It was about 96 degrees when the scene was filmed, which made running particularly difficult for the actors.[3] Despite the extremely hot temperatures, fake snow was placed in the exterior shots because the writers were trying to simulate the winter season weather of Scranton, Pennsylvania, where The Office is set, rather than the Van Nuys district in Los Angeles, California, where the show was filmed.[4]
The original script called for Michael to tell Andy about Angela's affair outside in the parking lot before getting into his car and driving away. When filming began, Holland considered filming the scene inside the car instead. Steve Carell suggested Michael get in the car and leave Andy outside, then tell him while driving away, which was how the scene was ultimately shot.[3] During a scene when Andy returns to the office and confronts his co-workers; there is a long, awkward silence, and the script originally called for Kevin to pass gas and ruin the tension. During filming, it was changed so Phyllis would pass gas instead because it was decided it would be funnier if it were a woman. During the editing process, Holland decided the joke did not work very well and cut it, but a brief moment of Dwight reacting in a disgusted way to the flatulence, while maintaining a defensive fighting pose toward Andy, can still be seen in the finished episode.[8]
The duel scene itself was shot over the course of six hours in the exterior parking lot setting. Natural lighting from the sun changed so drastically over that time, large bounce cards had to be placed above the hedges so the shadows would remain consistent throughout the shoot.[9] Ed Helms actually drove the car during the scenes, and Rainn Wilson performed his own stunts. The crew considered using a stunt double for Wilson, but they found his acting so funny during filming that they decided against it. At the end of "The Duel", Michael Scott talks directly to the camera with a New York City background behind him. The scenes were not filmed in the city, but rather behind a greenscreen where the scenery images were later added.[3]
During the cold open, after Michael believes he has run extremely fast, he says, "Eat that, Carl Lewis", a reference to the American track and field athlete and gold medalist.[10]
In its original American broadcast on January 15, 2009, "The Duel" was watched by 8.35 million viewers. It aired the same night as actor William Petersen's final appearance on the CBS drama series CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, which drew an unusually high viewership of 23.13 million viewers. Nevertheless, The Office outperformed CSI in the ratings among viewers between ages 18 and 34, earning a 5.0 rating/13 share compared to CSI's 3.8 rating/10 share. Both shows were outperformed in that age group by the ABC drama series Grey's Anatomy, which drew a 5.2 rating/13 share, and a total of 12.95 million viewers for the night. Among viewers between ages 18 and 49, "The Duel" drew a 4.3 rating/10 share, which was lower than both CSI and Grey's Anatomy. The Office also earned higher ratings in its timeslot than the Fox reality television series "Kitchen Nightmares" (4.28 million viewers) and the CW thriller series Supernatural (2.96 million viewers).[11]
It's fun to see an episode of The Office that is more plot-driven, as opposed to the norm of being based on observational humor. The Andy/Dwight/Angela triangle has proven to be a lot of fun. They are the anti-Jim and Pam, and in this episode it all really pays off well.
Travis Fickett, IGN[12]"The Duel" received generally positive reviews. Andy calling off the wedding after learning Angela cheated on him with Dwight ranked number 6 in phillyBurbs.com's top ten moments from the fifth season of The Office.[13] "The Duel" was voted the fourteenth highest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally, where the episode was rated 8.11 out of 10.[14] Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger said the episode "brings the Dwight/Angela/Andy triangle to an effective close" that made him feel sympathy for both Dwight and Andy. He was disappointed, however, that the idea of David Wallace trying to learn from Michael seemed undeveloped.[2] The A.V. Club writer Scott Tobias said "The Duel" efficiently resolved a major storyline in 30 minutes, and was "a nice mix of the wacky and the melancholy, though it's perhaps a little long on the former and a little short on the latter". He called the David Wallace subplot "funny-but-forgettable".[15] Travis Fickett of IGN said the episode was surprisingly intense and dramatic, and particularly highlighted the talents of Ed Helms. Fickett said "The Duel" was a great payoff to the Angela love triangle storyline and demonstrated how well The Office varies and paces stories from episode to episode.[12]
TV Guide writer Shahzad Abbas called it possibly the best episode of the season. Abbas particular enjoyed the tension as Andy learned the truth and the resolution of the duel.[6] Entertainment Weekly writer Alynda Wheat called it an "instant classic" and a vast improvement over the most recent string of episodes. Wheat called the interactions between Dwight and Andy "brilliance" and described the cold open "pretty genius".[16] New York magazine writer Will Leitch said the Andy-Dwight-Angela triangle was like a "dirtier, meaner, crazier parody" of the Jim-Pam-Roy subplot from previous seasons, and Leitch appreciated that it was resolved in a darker way than the latter love triangle.[5] Brian Howard of The Journal News called it a "great episode", and particularly enjoyed the moments between Angela and Dwight, and the way Jim tried to prevent Michael from telling Andy about the affair.[17] Jay Black of TV Squad said he enjoyed seeing Angela get her comeuppance, and felt he could relate to the voyeuristic interest the office co-workers took in the duel. Black praised the Michael subplot because it "provided an ironic counter-weight" to the duel because Michael was being praised for his managerial skills while his co-workers fought each other in the parking lot.[18]


"Basketball" is the fifth and penultimate episode of the first season of the American comedy television series The Office. The episode aired on NBC in the United States on April 19, 2005. The episode was written and directed by producer Greg Daniels, marking both his first solo writing credit and first directing credit for the series. This episode also marks the first appearance of comedian Patrice O'Neal.
In this episode, Michael Scott (played by Steve Carell) and the office staff take on the workers in the warehouse in a basketball game. The episode was inspired by a deleted scene from the first episode where Michael talks about a pick-up basketball game. For two days, the cast of The Office played actual basketball games, which were then spliced together to give the effect of one continuous game. Several lines from the episode became fans and cast favorites. "Basketball" was viewed by an estimated 5.0 million viewers and received a 2.4/6% rating share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode received positive reviews from critics.
The office staff are pitted against the warehouse in a game of basketball, with the losers having to work on Saturday. Michael Scott picks Jim Halpert, Ryan Howard, and Stanley Hudson, the last of whom he believes possesses significant basketball skills based on a racial stereotype. He also reluctantly picks Dwight Schrute and Phyllis Lapin, but refuses to pick Oscar Martinez or Kevin Malone. Pam Beesly has plans for an outing on the lake with her fiance Roy Anderson Saturday, provided the warehouse team wins. Jim half-jokingly proposes to Pam that if the office team wins, he will claim Roy's Saturday date with her.
The game begins and Stanley proves to be a horrible player. Furthermore, Michael cannot make a shot, nor is he a fan of passing or defending. Upon gaining possession of the ball, Michael fools around and teases his opponents, which results in Roy snatching the ball and scoring against Michael's team. He blames the scoring on his teammates' ineptitude. Jim switches with Michael on defense and defends Roy. Taking his wager with Pam seriously, Jim plays aggressively against Roy and shows his prowess at the game, with Pam looking on. Michael is accidentally hit in the face and claims it is a "flagrant personal intentional foul". He stops the game and declares the office winners since they were winning when the foul occurred. The warehouse finds the call unfair and Michael caves under pressure, conceding the victory to the warehouse staff. As everybody returns to work, Kevin demonstrates his excellent shooting skills.
Michael, faced with taking the blame for their loss, tells the office staff that they do not have to come in on Saturday either. However, his justification does little to calm them: "Like coming in an extra day is going to prevent us from being downsized."
"Basketball" was written and directed by producer Greg Daniels.[2] Although he wrote the episode, Daniels was not originally scheduled to direct "Basketball". Rainn Wilson remarked that he really pushed for Daniels to direct the episode.[3] John Krasinski applauded Daniels for being the first writer to "take [the characters] out of the office".[4] Daniels later said that his favorite shot from the episode was when Michael takes Ryan on a tour of the warehouse because "you got to see the whole basketball [set]". The editors' cut for the episode was 40 minutes long.[2] During the commentary for the episode, Steve Carell argued that the American version of The Office was more difficult to shoot because the British version was 29 minutes long, whereas the American version could only be 22 minutes.[5]
The inspiration for the episode was a deleted scene from the pilot episode where Michael talks about a pick-up basketball game.[2] During filming, the cast and crew were filmed playing real basketball games for two days, with three crew members spraying fake sweat on their faces, hair, and clothes.[6] The takes were then spliced together to make it appear as if only one game had taken place.[3] NBC was worried about the episode because several of their other pilots had done basketball episodes. The network put a lot of pressure on the cast and crew to make the episode appear "as realistic as it could be".[2] Donald Lee Harris designed the warehouse set, which Krasinski described as "amazing" and "detailed".[4]
Several of the actors had basketball experience, such as Krasinski, who played for his high school team.[4][6] Brian Baumgartner, who portrays Kevin, succeeded in making 14 consecutive free-throw shots, of which several were included in the final footage.[3][4] Steve Carell later said of his basketball skills, "The thing about looking like you're bad at basketball is, it's like anything else, you have to be incredibly good in order to look bad [...] but that's not the case with me and basketball. I just was bad." However, Carell said that he would "kick ass" at an upcoming hockey episode.[5] He was presumably referring to an episode which was never produced, since the only hockey episode during his run, "Threat Level Midnight", aired over five years after he made this statement, although an episode set at a skating rink ("Michael's Birthday") appeared during season 2.
"Basketball" contained several lines that became cast favorites. Two of Michael's lines, "The hand strikes and gives a flower" and "Blessed be those who sit and wait" were described by Wilson as Confucian and biblical, respectively.[3] Michael's line "Try not to be too gay on the court" was improvised by Carell and Krasinski's reaction was real. However, Phyllis Smith's reaction to Michael's disgust at the idea of her being a cheerleader was acted.[4]
In its original American broadcast on April 19, 2005, "Basketball" was viewed by an estimated 5.0 million viewers and received a 2.4/6% rating share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 2.4% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode, airing after Scrubs, retained 92 percent of its lead-in audience.[7]
The episode received moderately positive reviews from critics. Travis Fickett from IGN retroactively gave the episode a 7.5 out of 10, signifying a "good" episode. Fickett commented that "Basketball" was stylistically different from most of the other episodes in the fledgling series, pointing to its lack of a sub-plot and its characterization of Michael Scott. Fickett, when discussing the latter, singled out the moment wherein Michael hurts Phyllis' feelings by telling her she can't play basketball, writing, "The moment is played mostly straight–and it does feel more realistic and uncomfortable and in that way, the show leans more towards the feel of the UK series. It's a great moment, but feels like a different show." Overall, he wrote that, "There is still quite a bit of funny stuff [in 'Basketball'], but in many ways, this episode suggests what the show would have been like had it taken a slightly different direction in terms of tone and style."[8] Miss Alli from Television Without Pity gave the episode an "A−".[9] Jenna Mullins from E! News referred to "Basketball" as her "all-time favorite episode of The Office" in an article about Steve Carell's last episode of the series.[10]
Not all reviews were as positive, however. Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "C+" and highly criticized the characterization of Michael. Largely, he felt that Michael's antics made him out to be a jerk because the series has not worked at showing that he truly "isn't a complete asshole". Adams noted that Michael "could truly force Darryl and his staff to work on Saturdays, and he truly could fire them for winning the basketball game. But that would be an outrageous abuse of legitimate power, which isn't funny." Ultimately he argued that the basketball scenes went on for too long; he said the "episode's original cut ran too long to air, and it's obvious where the basketball scenes boxed out other threads of the episode".[11]


"Take Your Daughter To Work Day" is the eighteenth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's twenty-fourth episode overall. It was written by Mindy Kaling and directed by Victor Nelli, Jr. It first aired on March 16, 2006, on NBC. The episode guest stars Jazz Raycole as Melissa Hudson, Delaney Ruth Farrell as Sasha Flenderson, Spencer Daniels as Jake Palmer, and Jake Kalender as a young Michael Scott.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company.  In this episode, Take Your Daughter to Work Day results in four children spending the day at the office—Toby Flenderson's (Paul Lieberstein) daughter Sasha, Stanley Hudson's (Leslie David Baker) daughter Melissa, Kevin Malone's (Brian Baumgartner) fiancée's daughter Abby, and Meredith Palmer's (Kate Flannery) son Jake. Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) tries to befriend at least one child and ends up doing so by befriending Jake. Melissa develops a crush on Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), Michael Scott (Steve Carell) develops a friendship with Sasha, and tries to impress the children by claiming he was a child star, and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) struggles to show secret girlfriend Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) that he can be stern with Jake.
"Take Your Daughter to Work Day" was one of the last episodes filmed for the season. Due to the presence of actual children on the set, all of the main cast members had to tone down their behavior, making sure that no one cursed or told inappropriate jokes.[2] The installment received largely positive reviews from television critics. "Take Your Daughter to Work Day" received a Nielsen rating of 4.2 and was seen by 8.8 million viewers.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is frustrated that Take Your Daughter to Work Day will force him to tone down his office antics. Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) and Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) bring their daughters, Sasha (Delaney Ruth Farrell) and Melissa (Jazz Raycole) respectively, Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) brings his fiancée's daughter, Abby (Haley Daniels), and Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) brings her son, Jake (Spencer Daniels). Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) is determined to befriend one child by the end of the day. She tries with Abby, who instead takes a liking to Jim Halpert (John Krasinski). Jim enlists Abby in helping him make sales, Sasha walks into Michael's office and plays with his toys, and after he jokes she becomes quite fond of him.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) begins to read one of his childhood horror stories to the children, but Michael enters and insists that he stop upsetting the kids. Michael shows the children and the office a video of him as a child (Jake Kalender) during an appearance on a kid's show, where he revealed his dream was to "get married and have 100 kids, so I can have 100 friends, and no one can say 'no' to being my friend." He retreats into his office when he realizes that he never came close to that dream. Toby talks to Michael, who decides to start online dating (with the user name "Little Kid Lover"). After being tormented by Jake all day, Dwight upsets him with a childish insult, which quietly pleases Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey). Pam wins over Jake with the paper shredder. Jim leaves the office early to go on a date, to Pam's chagrin. Michael and Dwight end the party by singing "Teach Your Children".
"Take Your Daughter to Work Day" was written by Mindy Kaling, who portrayed Kelly Kapoor on the series.[2] The episode was directed by Victor Nelli Jr., making it his second directoral credit after the earlier episode "The Carpet".[3][4] The episode was one of the last installments filmed for the season. In addition, the episode took five days to film. Each day, over twelve hours was devoted to filming.[2] The episode guest stars Jazz Raycole as Melissa Hudson, Delaney Ruth Farrell as Sasha Flenderson, Spencer Daniels as Jake Palmer, and Jake Kalender as a young Michael Scott.[5]
Jenna Fischer noted that, due to the presence of actual children on the set, "everyone had to be on their best behavior", meaning that there was no "cursing and no dirty jokes allowed".[2] She later said that "we aren't a 'G-rated' bunch by nature."[2] Fischer later joked that "candy is one of my weaknesses", but she was able to get through the filming of the episode without eating any of it.[2] She explained that during the filming of the earlier second season episodes "Halloween" and "Valentine's Day", she had eaten a majority of the candy the crew put on her desk.[2]
The second season DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include the Party Planning Committee squabbling over what food to serve, Stanley complaining that his daughter is spoiled, Dwight discovering an eraser in his coffee courtesy of Jake, and Jim giving Abby an official certificate of appreciation.[6]
Pam notes that by putting out candy to lure in children, she is acting just like the witch in the fairy tale "Hansel and Gretel". Michael complains about having to censor himself with children around; he compares himself to Eddie Murphy in his movie Raw and notes "they" want to make him into Murphy in Daddy Day Care. Michael, Jim, and Dwight get into an argument about superheroes. Michael claims that he is like Superman defending Gotham City. Both Jim and Dwight correct him, and he says that he is more like Aquaman.[7]
Jim and Abby discuss the book From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler and talk whether they would want to spend a night in the Metropolitan Museum of Art or an aquarium. Sasha asks Phyllis if she is Mother Goose. Dwight later reads the short story "Die Geschichte vom Daumenlutscher" from Heinrich Hoffmann's 1845 book Struwwelpeter. Michael later refers to it as a book that Dwight's "Nazi war-criminal" grandmother read to him.[7] This starts a short discussion about Nazis. Michael argues that Dunder Mifflin is better than Office Depot with the children. He later shows them his performance on Fundle Bundle, a parody of "those crappy little local kids' shows that used to fill time on Saturday mornings before there were such things as infomercials".[7] Michael and Dwight end the party by performing Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young's "Teach Your Children".[7] In an episode of the Office Ladies podcast, it was revealed that "Fundle Bundle" was based on a show called "The Land Of Hatchy Milatchy" which aired in Scranton in the 1980s.
"Take Your Daughter to Work Day" originally aired on NBC on March 16, 2006.[8] The episode received a 4.2 rating/11 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[9] This means that it was seen by 4.2 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[9] The episode was viewed by 8.8 million viewers, and retained 93 percent of its lead-in My Name is Earl audience.[9]
The episode received largely positive reviews from critics. Francis Rizzo III of DVD Talk called the scene where the office realizes Michael's loneliness "absolutely one of the saddest moments I've seen in recent memory" and noted that "you can't help but feel for him".[10] M. Giant of Television Without Pity gave the episode an "A".[7] Brendan Babish of DVD Verdict called the entry "another great episode" for the series and awarded it an "A−".[11] He noted that by bringing the supporting characters' kids into the office "hilarity ensues".[11] Babish applauded the lack of an arching plot, allowing "Michael's faux pas" to take center stage.[11] Michael Sciannamea of AOLTV called "Take Your Daughter to Work Day" the "best episode yet this season" and noted that "the writers will be hard-pressed to come up with a better story than this one."[12] Sciannamea called "the transformation of Michael's indifference over the kids to one of acceptance and pure enjoyment of having them around" as the "most interesting aspect of the episode".[12] He also called Dwight and Michael's sing-along near the end "the single funniest moment of the season".[12]


"Chair Model" is the fourteenth episode of the fourth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's sixty-seventh episode overall. Written by B. J. Novak, and directed by Jeffrey Blitz, the episode first aired in the United States on April 17, 2008 on NBC. The episode guest-stars Brooke Dillman and Robert R. Shafer as Bob Vance.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) finds himself lonely and wanting a relationship after breaking up with Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin). While looking through an office-supplies catalog, he falls in love with a chair model. Meanwhile, Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) fight to reclaim lost parking spaces, and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) tells Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) that he is going to propose.
The final scene was originally going to be a parody of "Candle in the Wind" by Elton John, but John refused permission. The scene was then re-written to feature a parody of the song "American Pie" by Don McLean. "Chair Model" received mostly positive reviews from critics, although some fans were alienated by the dark nature of the storyline. The episode received 5.8 Nielsen rating and was watched by 9.86 million viewers.
While browsing an office-chair catalog, Michael Scott (Steve Carell), who has broken up with Jan Levinson, becomes enamored of one of the female chair models. As a result, he decides to resume dating with the help of the office employees, even going so far as threatening to fire them if they do not help. No one in the office wants to set up any of their friends with Michael, but when Michael learns that the chair model had died in a car crash some time ago, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) takes pity and sets him up on a blind date with her landlady (Brooke Dillman). The date does not go well, beginning with Michael pretending he is not who she was supposed to be meeting. After Michael admits his own blind date was a failure, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) convinces him that he needs closure on this person he loved who is gone. The two end up in a cemetery at the grave of the chair model, where Michael "grieves". They are both singing "American Pie" by Don McLean and dancing on her grave.
With Michael busy, Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) work to reclaim parking spaces that they have lost to construction workers working in a neighboring office. They arrange a meeting with the bosses of the office park, and are given the parking spots back. Kevin feels happy to have won his space back, as his fiancée Stacy broke off their engagement and it's been a hard time for him.
While flirting, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) drops a hint about proposing to Pam, even going as far as telling her that he is not going to do it at work ("because that would be rather lame") and when he does it, it will "kick her ass". Pam is not sure if he's joking. Alone with the camera, Jim reveals that he was not joking and shows an engagement ring that he bought "the week after [they] started dating." After work, while walking back to his car, he stops and gets down on one knee. When Pam stops and looks he says he has a question to ask her. After a second or so of hesitation, he asks her if she will wait while he ties his shoes. She laughs and they continue walking hand in hand.  At the end of the episode, Michael and Dwight are seen singing "American Pie" and dancing in the same cemetery at night, having never left.
"Chair Model" was the third episode of the series directed by Jeffrey Blitz. Blitz had previously directed "The Convict" and "The Negotiation".[1][2] The episode was written by B. J. Novak, who plays temporary worker turned corporate manager Ryan Howard.[3][4] Novak was originally going to name the episode "Michael Dating", but the title could have potentially been a spoiler because fans with DVRs would have seen it before "Dinner Party" aired and deduced that Michael and Jan's relationship had completely fallen apart. For a while, "Parking" was going to be the title, but even that was decided against because that refers to the subplot, and also because it was generic and boring even by the show's no-frills-titles standard. Eventually, someone suggested "Chair Model", which was eventually kept as the name.[4] Originally, Novak wrote Jim putting Dwight through a "phony management training", but NBC pointed out that it felt like the writers had done it before even though they had not. As a group, the writers tried to think of a new idea for the plot; they considered having Pam move in with Jim, but they thought that first the two should be engaged.[5]
There was an auditioning process for both the chair model (Deborah Shoshlefski played by April Eden) and the young blond woman whom Michael sees in the coffee shop. According to Novak, the chair model was supposed to be "pretty" and "perhaps even prettier than your average model", but more of just an "average single girl", because the episode is more about Michael wanting to start dating again than the model herself.[4]  In the scene with the "Five Families", one of the actors, Paul Faust was the only first-time actor. Faust is the cousin of writer Paul Lieberstein, and had been on a tour of the set and talked to many of the writers. He made a good impression and so the character of "Cool Guy Paul" was based on him. The day before they were scheduled to shoot, the show still had not cast anyone for the role, so they called Paul in New York City and had him read the lines into a camera and e-mail to them. In less than an hour, Faust had landed the part and was flown out to Los Angeles.[4]
Although Novak wrote the majority of the episode, Jennifer Celotta and Paul Lieberstein were actually the ones who came up with the graveyard scene in the end. The original song for Michael to sing was going to be a parody of "Candle in the Wind" by Elton John. Elton John however, refused to give The Office permission to use the song, because 30 Rock had requested permission for a parody of "Candle in the Wind" that offended Elton John, and he did not want to have his song parodied again. So then, the writers wrote parodies of "Legs" by ZZ Top and "Ruby Tuesday" by The Rolling Stones, but eventually "American Pie" by Don McLean cleared, so the writers went with it.[5]
Michael calls Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) an "Oscar Mayer Wiener Lover", a reference to both the sausage of the same name, as well as Oscar's homosexuality. Andy and Kevin hold a meeting with the head of the "Five Families" of the office building, a reference to the New York City American Mafia "Five Families". Michael later tries to call a "hot and juicy redhead" named Wendy, but it turns out it was the number for Wendy's, the fast-food restaurant.[6]
"Chair Model" first aired on NBC on April 17, 2008.[7] The episode received 5.8/9 percent share in the households demographic in the Nielsen ratings. This means that 5.8 percent of all households watched the episode, and nine percent had their televisions tuned to the channel at any point. The episode was watched by 9.86 million viewers total, as well as 6.49 million viewers in the 18–49 demographic.[8]
"Chair Model" was generally well received by critics, although some fans were alienated by the darkness of the episode. Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club gave the episode a moderately positive review and awarded it a "B+".[9] He noted that the episode "fell on the wrong side of the funny/creepy divide for a lot of Office fans", but that he enjoyed the entry, calling the grave scene "unexpectedly sweet".[9] He also enjoyed the maturation of Andy, describing him as "coming into his own [and becoming] something more than just a foil for Dwight".[9] M. Giant of Television Without Pity awarded the episode an "A".[6] BuddyTV senior writer Oscar Dahl wrote that "The Office is sharp as ever" and Jim's saying that he was going to propose was "a big time moment in the Jim/Pam story".[10] Dahl also praised the parking lot storyline, saying "what started as merely a joke (Kevin was dumped), became a feel-good moment."[10]
IGN's Travis Fickett said that Michael falling in love with the chair model was "a hysterical turn and highlights just how deluded Michael—and Dwight—can be".[11] Fickett was critical of the "parking" storyline, saying that it was "a bit over the top and runs a bit thin", but he did think that the scene at the end with Kevin was "a sweet and genuine moment".[11] Aubry D'Arminio of Entertainment Weekly stated that, in relation to the previous episode "Dinner Party", "Last night's show took another approach. Don't get me wrong. It was a blinder—but a totally different animal, so to speak."[12] D'Arminio went on to praise the dual plots of the episode.[12]



"Diversity Day" is the second episode of the first season of the American comedy television series The Office. Written by B. J. Novak and directed by Ken Kwapis, it first aired in the United States on March 29, 2005, on NBC. The episode guest-stars Office consulting producer Larry Wilmore as Mr. Brown.
In this episode, Michael's controversial imitation of a Chris Rock routine, Niggas vs. Black People, forces the staff to undergo a racial diversity seminar. A consultant arrives to teach the staff about tolerance and diversity, but Michael insists on imparting his own knowledge—aggravating both the consultant and the entire office staff—and creates his own diversity seminar. He eventually assigns each staff member an index card with a different race on it, causing tempers to simmer until they snap. Meanwhile, Jim struggles to keep hold of a lucrative contract extension, but Dwight makes the sale for himself.
"Diversity Day" was the first episode of The Office to feature original writing, as the pilot episode ("Pilot") contained many jokes from the British series pilot. Wilmore, a writer for the show, had to formally audition with other actors because of stipulations with the Screen Actors Guild. The episode received positive reviews from television critics. Despite this, it received a 2.7/6 in the Nielsen ratings among people aged 18–49 and garnered 6.0 million viewers overall, losing almost half of its audience from the previous week.
In answer to Michael's recitation of Chris Rock's "Niggas vs. Black People" routine, the corporate offices of Dunder Mifflin send a representative (Mr. Brown) from Diversity Today to hold a diversity training seminar. After Michael repeatedly attempts to take over the training and makes an issue of signing the form saying he learned something, Brown privately explains to him that the training was purely for Michael's benefit, the other employees were included solely so as not to shame Michael, and corporate will not allow Brown to leave until Michael signs the form. Michael finds this insulting and, as a response, holds his own diversity meeting. He shows a brief video that addresses nothing of significance, claims that his heritage is "two-fifteenths Native American", and instructs everyone to wear index cards with a certain race on it and to treat others however they might treat people of those races. When he delivers a racist impression of an Indian person to Kelly (who is not wearing a card, having missed the activity due to a meeting), she takes offense and slaps him.
Meanwhile, Jim tries to re-up an annual sale that will amount to a quarter of his yearly commission, but he is ultimately undercut by Dwight. However, during the end of the diversity meeting Pam dozes on his shoulder, leading Jim to conclude that it was nevertheless "not a bad day".
Larry Wilmore, who plays the sensitivity trainer Mr. Brown, is a writer for the show. At the table-read for this episode, they had not cast the part yet and Daniels had Wilmore read for the role to fill in. After the read, producer Greg Daniels thought he was perfect for the role.[2] However, because of stipulations with the Screen Actors Guild, producers still had to have Wilmore formally audition with other actors for the role.[3] Daniels was also not sure where to use Mindy Kaling on-screen in the series until the point came in this episode's script when Michael needed to be slapped by a minority. Her character in this episode, however, is far from the bubbly, chatty character that Kelly later becomes.[4][5]
The second episode of the series was the first to feature predominantly original writing, as the pilot episode contained many jokes from the British series pilot.[6] During one of Michael's impersonations, a racial expletive spoken by Michael had to be censored by the producers for NBC. Daniels was terrified that the scene would leak unedited, so he personally oversaw the censoring of the master copy.[7]
The scene during which Pam rests her head on Jim's shoulder after Dwight has stolen his sale and Jim smiles and says "not a bad day after all" came about when Greg Daniels spoke to the writers about wanting to have small, happy interactions between Jim and Pam and mentioned the head-on-shoulder idea, which B. J. Novak wrote into his script.[8] Paul Lieberstein did not want to appear in the episode and did so assuming it would be a one-time event, but Kevin Reilly was impressed by his work and said the show should use him more, leading to the expansion of Lieberstein's work as Toby Flenderson.[8] Two scenes that were cut involved Michael Scott responding to Mr. Brown's "HERO" acronym by creating an "INCEST" acronym, and Jim replacing Dwight's "Asian" card with "Dwight" and then having the other co-workers complain to a clueless Dwight about how annoying his behavior is.[8]
NBC webcast this episode on March 16, 2005, on MySpace to promote the show's then-upcoming premiere. This was  NBC's first-ever online debut of a complete episode of a network series, and also included a trimmed-down webisode version of the episode for on-demand viewing on MySpace the following day.[9] Greg Daniels later noted in an interview with Uproxx that cutting it to the required 12 minutes "was almost impossible" and that he had already "really sweated" during the process of getting the episode down to the 22 minutes for broadcast.[8]
"Diversity Day" premiered on NBC on March 29, 2005.[10] While the pilot episode garnered over eleven million viewers,[11] the second episode lost over half its viewing audience from the previous episode.[12][13] The episode received a 2.7/6 in the Nielsen ratings among people aged 18–49, meaning that 2.7 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds viewed the episode and six percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching TV viewed it.[10] The episode garnered 6.0 million viewers overall.[10] The episode, airing after Scrubs, retained 90% of its lead-in 18–49 audience.[10] In addition, "Diversity Day", along with the other first-season episodes of The Office, helped NBC score its highest-rated Tuesday night slot since February 1, 2005.[10]
Contrary to the lukewarm response to the pilot, "Diversity Day" earned positive reviews from television critics. Entertainment Weekly gave the episode positive reviews, stating that: "Think of the toss-off racism of the original, plopped into a PC-gone-wrong showcase that might be entitled The Accidental Bigot. As when the African-American diversity trainer introduces himself as Mr. Brown, and Scott assures him, 'I will not call you that.'"[14] Ricky Gervais (the lead in the British series) stated that in comparison to the British version, "[i]t is as good. I love the fact that, apart from the first one, the scripts are all original. You've gone back to the blueprint of what the characters are and you've started from there, as opposed to copying anything."[15] Rolling Stone magazine named the scene wherein Michael shows the office his diversity video the third greatest Moment from The Office. The article particularly praised Michael's line: "Abraham Lincoln once said, 'If you are a racist, I will attack you with the North.'"[16]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B+" and felt that, as the show lost viewers in the first season, the stories got better, and that "Diversity Day" is an excellent example of this "unfortunate trend". He noted that the episode "would go on to be one of the series' defining episodes, an installment that put a more hopeful spin on the original Office's views on accepting the disparity between our dreams and our realities." However, Adams noted that Carell's character was still too aggressive for Michael Scott to be completely lovable, and that the second season episode "Sexual Harassment" would serve as "a gentler spiritual sequel" to this episode, featuring a similar premise, but with a softened Michael Scott.[17] For his work on this episode, B. J. Novak was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for Best Screenplay – Episodic Comedy.[18]
On August 22, 2021, the channel Comedy Central removed the episode from its reruns of the show. However it remains in rotation on Freeform and is still available to stream on Peacock, NBCUniversal's streaming service.[19]


"Traveling Salesmen" is the thirteenth episode of the third season of the American version of The Office and the show's 41st overall. The episode was written by Michael Schur, Lee Eisenberg, and Gene Stupnitsky, and it was directed by series creator and executive producer Greg Daniels. It first aired on January 11, 2007 in the United States on NBC.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, the sales team goes out on sales calls, with Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) and Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), Phyllis Lapin (Phyllis Smith) and Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones), and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) pairing up. Andy tries to show Dwight in a bad light to Michael, Karen learns of Jim's previous crush on Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) forgets to hand in some important documents to New York, so her secret boyfriend Dwight does it for her.
Krasinski believed "Traveling Salesmen" was the first episode to give a real glimpse into Dwight and Angela's relationship, and much of the plot centered on the two. It aired to an estimated 10.2 million viewers according to Nielsen Media Research. It was positively received by television critics. Along with "The Return", NBC later re-broadcast "Traveling Salesmen" as a combined hour-long episode as part of their sweeps week. As a result, both episodes underwent editing which included the addition of four minutes of previously unseen footage.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) arrives several hours late to work one morning, due to driving to New York City to help out Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey).
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) announces that the sales department will be pairing up for sales calls. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) chooses Michael, Phyllis Lapin (Phyllis Smith) chooses Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones), and Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) grudgingly chooses Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), leaving Dwight with Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), who used to do sales calls together. Andy learns that Dwight does Michael's laundry as punishment for meeting with Jan to take over the branch. During their sales call, Andy sabotages the meeting, setting up an opportunity to later apologize to Michael, stating that he had really "Schruted" the situation, a further attempt to deride Dwight.
While the salespeople are out, Angela tells Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) a thinly disguised story of how "Kurt" saves "Noelle" ("Kurt" and "Noelle" being Dwight's and Angela's middle names, respectively) by delivering the quarterly tax forms to New York.
At first, Jim's and Dwight's sales call appears to be a fiasco, but it is soon clear that the joint force of Jim's straight-and-honest sales approach, along with Dwight's aggressive, erratic tactics, is a very successful partnership. Ryan asks Stanley if he could lead on this call so Stanley can critique him, which Stanley obliges.  However, Ryan freezes up and fails when he realizes that Stanley's clients are all black.  Stanley laughs at an annoyed Ryan during the entire trip back to the office.  Phyllis and Karen first stop at a beauty parlor, emerging with gaudy makeovers.  Their sales call is a success because, as Phyllis knew, the client likes women with that kind of look, as evidenced by the photo of his wife. Returning to the office, Phyllis tells Karen that she's pleased that Jim got over his crush on Pam. Karen confronts Jim with this information, and he reassures her that his crush has passed.
Upon returning after the sales call, Andy steals Dwight's keys, breaks into his car, and finds the toll booth ticket to New York City. Andy gives the evidence to Michael, who then accuses Dwight of disloyalty, and Angela prevents him from clearing his name because it would expose their relationship. Dwight resigns and hugs Jim on his way out. Andy gloats over his success, but the documentary camera catches Angela in the background glaring at him.
"Traveling Salesman" was written by Michael Schur, Lee Eisenberg, and Gene Stupnitsky,[2] while co-creator and executive producer Greg Daniels directed.[3] Daniels shot "Traveling Salesmen"[4] and "The Return" in mid-November 2006 before the cast and crew began an eight-week break.[5]
John Krasinski enjoyed the episode because he believed it was the first real glimpse of Angela and Dwight's relationship, with Rainn Wilson noting that the audience gets "to see how Dwight becomes her hero".[6] As with other Office episodes, a number of scenes in "Traveling Salesmen" were improvised and unscripted, including Angela with the jelly beans and Stanley laughing at Ryan in the car.[6]
To create the old picture of Jim and Dwight, an actual high school photograph of Krasinski was photoshopped along with a 1991 image of Wilson while Wilson was on tour with an acting company. While standing in the parking lot, the cast had to pretend to shiver in 85 °F (29 °C) weather. Krasinski actually slapped Wilson at Wilson's request, which Krasinski considered "one of the craziest acting experiences I've ever had".[6] Before deciding on singing to a melody from Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, Ed Helms and Daniels shot 50 different versions.[6] Another Willy Wonka reference includes Andy's mention of a chocolate factory and not wishing "to fall into any chocolate river".[7]
"Traveling Salesmen" was later rebroadcast with "The Return" as a combined hour-long episode on March 15, 2007, with four minutes of previously unseen footage added.[8][9] Greg Daniels explained that it was both an attempt to attract a larger audience and "it's about giving something extra to our wonderful fans…their loyalty must be rewarded somehow, and we don't have the budget for 10 million muffin baskets".[8][10] As part of the editing process, Pam is seen winning an art contest, four scenes of Andy searching through Dwight's things were condensed, and an Angela–Pam storyline as well as an extended scene of Andy going to anger management were added.[11][12] The third season DVD contains a number of deleted scenes, such as Michael using his computer, "Harvey", to hit on Pam (this scene was the cold open for "Traveling Salesman" on its original broadcast; the combined hour-long version of "Traveling Salesman" and "The Return" has no cold open). Notable cut scenes included Andy dramatically illustrating to Karen that they are the only two Stamford employees remaining, Jim and Dwight surreptitiously planning their sales tactic, Pam offering to get coffee for her co-workers, and Dwight emotionally giving away selected items to others in the office.[11]
"Traveling Salesmen" was first broadcast on January 11, 2007 in the United States on NBC. According to Nielsen Media Research, an estimated 10.2 million viewers tuned in,[13] making it only a handful of other episodes of The Office to reach over 10 million viewers, the others being the show's pilot episode, "The Injury", "The Return," "Ben Franklin" and "Stress Relief," of which the latter reached over 20 million viewers.[14][15]
Buddy TV senior writer Oscar Dahl remarked, "It didn't make me laugh out loud and, yet, I still loved it." He shed a negative light on Andy's behavior towards Dwight, calling it "annoying and not that funny". Dahl hoped Dwight would be reappearing soon, and concluded "Overall, a crucial story episode with a nice cliffhanger. Even if wasn't as funny as last week or even most episodes this season, The Office still entertains."[16] AOL TV's Michael Sciannamea lauded the episode, writing "I cannot remember ever guffawing over every single line in a single sitcom episode as I did watching this one. If the performances in this particular one don't garner the actors in this show a plethora of Emmys, there ought to be an investigation." Sciannamea continued that he believed it was Steve Carell's best series performance thus far because he "displayed the full range of his personality—jokester, arrogant jerk, charming salesman, sensitive soul, and added a new one—anger."[17]
Entertainment Weekly writer Abby West commented of Dwight's ouster, "There's no way Rainn Wilson is off the show, but it was a bold move to let him appear to be bested by the (slightly) more Machiavellian Andy. I can't wait to see how they play out this storyline."[18] West referred to "Phyllis' expert psychological move" with the makeovers as her favorite subplot of the night, and appreciated the spotlight on the sales pairings; she expanded on this latter point, "The trip out of the office was also a great reminder of what these Dunder Mifflin-ers actually do and how good most of them are. Isn't it interesting that as much as they normally clash, Dwight and Jim make a very effective sales team, while the seeming bond that Michael and Andy share did nothing to keep Andy from punting their pitch? When Dwight started using the client's phone, Jim didn't skip a beat. They'd either used the ploy (of dialing the competition's customer service number and showing how long the wait time was) before, or Jim is comfortable going with Dwight's flow, at least in that kind of setting. They essentially played good cop/bad cop... or good cop/weird cop."[18] Other television critics also praised the various sales call pairings.[17][19]

"Product Recall" is the twenty-first episode of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's forty-ninth episode overall. The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, the company deals with the consequences of an offending watermark that appeared on several reams of paper. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) holds a poorly attended press conference, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) head to a high school that printed their prom invitations on the paper to apologize, and Creed frames an employee at the paper mill to keep his job.
The episode was written by Justin Spitzer and Brent Forrester, and was directed by Randall Einhorn, the series director of photography. The cast found the scene in which Jim impersonates Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) to be hilarious and had trouble keeping straight faces, forcing multiple takes. The episode first aired in the United States on April 26, 2007, on NBC, during sweeps week. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was watched by an estimated 7.56 million viewers, earning a ratings share of 3.9/11 among adults. It garnered generally positive critical reception, particularly regarding Jim and Dwight's impressions of each other.
In the cold open, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) shows up at work imitating Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) by wearing large glasses, a short sleeved shirt and hair split on his forehead and mimicking Dwight's mannerisms.
The Scranton branch of Dunder Mifflin is thrown into damage control mode when reams of paper with an obscene watermark depicting a cartoon duck and mouse (which Michael Scott (Steve Carell) believes to be Donald Duck and Mickey Mouse respectively, though they do not resemble either) having sex are shipped to customers. Michael holds an emergency meeting in which he rebukes Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton)—the branch's quality assurance director—for failing to catch the error, tells Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) to train the accountants to handle customer support calls, and sends Jim and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) to a school that used the affected paper to print prom invitations. At the school, Andy is horrified to discover that his girlfriend is a student there, and is despondent throughout the visit. On the drive back, Jim cheers him up by initiating an a capella performance of "The Lion Sleeps Tonight".
To save his job, Creed calls the paper mill and, with careful queries, learns that a Debbie Brown was out with the flu for one day in the week the watermark went out. He frames Debbie by telling Dwight she failed to meet with him and gave a different excuse for her absence. After Debbie is fired, Creed passes a farewell card around the office and pockets the money collected.
Michael stages an apology press conference, attended by just one local news reporter, where he presents Barbara Allen (Lisa Darr), an angry customer, with a novelty check for free paper. She instead demands Michael's resignation, but he refuses and angrily ejects her from the office. Now facing further damage control, Michael makes an "apology video" in which he threatens to issue paper with a watermark bearing "the f word" if he is forced to resign.
In the ending, Dwight shows up to the office imitating Jim, but Jim is merely impressed with the accuracy of the impersonation.
"Product Recall" was written by staff writer Justin Spitzer and consulting producer Brent Forrester.[3] It was the third Office episode to be directed by Randall Einhorn,[4] a former director of Survivor[5] who also worked as the series' director of photography.[6] In early 2007, series co-creator Greg Daniels explained to an audience at Paleyfest that Einhorn's direction had become "a character in the show because [he] has an enormous amount of judgment/leeway about where he's looking. And often [what] adds a tremendous amount of comedy is the choosing to look over there and see what that person thinks and back and forth. He's definitely a hidden character on the show."[7]
In an April 2007 blog post for TV Guide, actress Kate Flannery, who plays Meredith Palmer, called Jim's impression of Dwight "one of the funniest scenes that I have ever witnessed."[8] She recalled that Krasinski and Wilson enjoyed filming the scene, and that the whole cast was laughing during it, necessitating many takes.[8] The scene was first intended for the season's twenty-second episode, "Women's Appreciation", before it was moved to "Product Recall" due to time constraints.[9]
The third season DVD contains several scenes that were deleted from the final cut of the episode. These include Kelly annoyingly answering calls with the same response, Dwight contacting CNN, Kelly training the accountants, Creed admitting that he faked his own death for tax reasons, Michael explaining his apology to angry business owner Barbara Allen, Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) and Kelly arguing, Jim talking to a high school student, and more scenes of Michael filming his apology video.[10]
When imitating Dwight, Jim says "Bears, beets, Battlestar Galactica," the last term being a reference to the re-imagined science fiction television series.[11] Later, while driving Andy begins a rendition of "Drift Away", and Jim sings "The Lion Sleeps Tonight" to cheer him up.[11][12] Kelly and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) have a conversation pretending to be Bridget Jones and the Crocodile Hunter, respectively. Michael worries that Newsweek and CNN will pick up the cartoon scandal story from The Scranton Times.[11]
"Product Recall" first aired in the United States on April 26, 2007, during the month's sweeps week.[13] According to Nielsen Media Research, it was watched by an estimated 7.56 million viewers. It earned a ratings share of 3.9/11 among adults, meaning that it was seen by 3.9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[14] For its timeslot, the episode finished in second place among adults behind Survivor: Fiji and in first place among men aged 18–34. Among adults, The Office finished in nineteenth place for the week.[15][16]
IGN's Brian Zoromski rated "Product Recall" with 7.5 out of 10, an indication of a "good" episode. He thought it held "a hit-and-miss mix of laugh-out-loud moments and scenes that didn't work quite as well," but praised the obscene cartoon premise for being "hilarious".[12] Zoromski also criticized the episode for being unrealistic, as Michael dealt with the problem rather than Corporate. He selected Creed and Jim for particular praise, especially liking Jim's Dwight impression.[12]
Like Zoromski, Abby West of Entertainment Weekly critiqued the episode for not involving Corporate, complaining "How could such a public-relations nightmare not lead to a visit or a phone call from Jan?"[17] West did however praise Jim and Dwight's impressions of each other as "perfect" bookendings.[17] Writing for AOL TV, Jay Black called "Product Recall" "wonderful" and highlighted the Jim-Dwight impersonations and Andy's discomfort upon discovering his girlfriend was a high school student. Black did however criticize Michael's press conference as "over-the-top in an annoying way" and Creed's actions as "way over the line" and "despicable".[18] Television Without Pity graded the episode with an A−.[11]


"Scott's Tots" is the twelfth episode of the sixth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 112th episode overall. The episode was directed by B. J. Novak, his directorial debut for the series, and written by Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg. It first aired in the United States on NBC on December 3, 2009.
The series, presented in a mockumentary format, depicts the everyday lives of office employees at the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictitious Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, it is revealed that ten years earlier, Michael (Steve Carell) recklessly promised to pay for the college tuition of an entire local third grade class if they could complete high school. Lacking the personal wealth necessary to fulfill his promise, he and Erin (Ellie Kemper) must go tell the students, who are now high school seniors, that they will not be receiving the money. Meanwhile, in Michael's absence, Dwight (Rainn Wilson) convinces Jim (John Krasinski) to start an employee-of-the-month program with the intention of getting Jim into trouble. The episode achieved a viewership of 8.05 million during its initial airing in the United States.
"Scott's Tots" was critically acclaimed upon its initial airing, with many calling it a classic Office episode.  Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg submitted this episode for the 2010 Emmys.
A decade ago, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) launched a program named "Scott's Tots", where he promised a group of underprivileged 3rd graders, that he would pay their full college tuition, provided they graduate high school. In present time, he has failed to achieve his goal of being a millionaire, and is unable to fulfill the promise. He reluctantly visits their high school with Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) to break the bad news. Michael's promise encouraged the students to excel academically, and they greet Michael with standing applause. Michael admits his inability to pay for their college tuition, and attempts to make up for it by providing them laptop batteries. However, this fails to appease the angry students. In the end, Michael offers to a single student to at least pay for his books. On the way back to the office, Michael and Erin have a comforting conversation. Erin reminds him of the students' higher-than-average graduation rate, and Michael compliments Erin's work ethic and reveals Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) was originally going to be in the warehouse, but became an accountant after Michael's belief in him.
Meanwhile, on a suggestion from Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) starts an employee of the month program to increase office morale. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), however, schemes to get Jim fired. He gives Jim a performance sheet to determine the employee of the month, using complete anonymity to ensure a fair and unbiased assessment. Dwight, without Jim's authorization, also collects money from each of the employees as part of a cash prize. At the end, it is revealed that he apparently picked himself by accident and his wife Pam (Jenna Fischer) came second. Then, a cake is delivered to the office with Jim's face on it, and with the words "It Could Only Be You." The other workers accuse Jim for extracting money from the company. Jim tries to blame Dwight, but since he has taken numerous precautions to protect himself from it, he passively fires back. 
Dwight initiates the second part of his plan by calling CFO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) multiple times, each time pretending to be a different employee complaining about Jim's failed program. An angry David calls Jim back and chews him out for the mishap. Almost assured that this will get Jim fired, Dwight listens in to the phone conversation from the pen recorder he had left in Jim's office in a previous episode ("The Lover"). But instead of firing Jim, David apologizes to him for losing his temper and praises Jim, adding that David and his wife are "still on" to go out with Jim and Pam. Angry that his plan has not worked, Dwight returns to the drawing board. He creates an alliance with Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) to achieve his goal.
"Scott's Tots" first aired on NBC on December 3, 2009.[2] In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by an estimated 8.055 million viewers and received a 4.1 rating/11 percent share in the 18–49 demographic. This means that it was seen by 4.1 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. In addition, the episode ranked first in its half-hour timeslot and was the highest-rated NBC series of the night.[3]
"The pay-off of this predicament plays with Michael's delusional tendencies brilliantly. As the students and teachers heap praise onto his shoulders, the kids even busting into a choreographed dance and rap number in his honor, you can sense Michael nearly convincing himself that he's really helping all these kids and that he deserves all the thanks. Steve Carell's facial expressions during this scene are absolutely priceless, and remind you what makes him one of the most gifted comedic actors around. Dread turns into amusement, which turns into pride, which finally turns back into dread when he realizes he's going to have to spill the beans."
—Dan Phillips, IGN[4]Dan Phillips of IGN gave the episode a 9.4 out of 10 rating, denoting an "amazing" episode. It was also the highest score given to any sixth-season episode by the site.[4] Phillips called the episode "an instant classic and another phenomenal installment of this season, which hit some rough patches but seems to have recovered brilliantly", especially pointing out the scene between Michael and the irate students.[4] Phillips felt that the main scene between Michael and the children was pivotal and that it "might just rank atop The Office's long list and rich history of uncomfortable yet hilarious moments".[4]
Joel Keller of The Huffington Post wrote that "as the kids from that third-grade class praised Michael and told him how much his gift meant to them, all I could think of was, 'this is so wrong.' [...] The pain on Michael's face was palpable. I had the same expression."[5] He, however, was more critical of the episode's subplot, noting that he was "getting tired of Dwight's diabolical plans".[5] He felt that Jim should have caught onto Dwight's plan, rather than fall for it. Keller ultimately concluded that the episode was "a solid job this week. Not the best of the season, but not bad, either."[5]
Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club called the episode "kick-ass" and awarded it an "A−". Rabin commended the fact that Michael's bad-idea-for-the-right-reason made him likable. Furthermore, he noted that both Michael and the kids engaged in "mutually beneficial self-deception"; the former thought he could save those in need, and the latter had something to look forward to.[6] Rabin also enjoyed the subplot involving Jim and Dwight, noting that it "afforded [actor Rainn Wilson] an opportunity to do surprisingly accurate, unconscionably mean impersonations of Stanley and Toby".[6]
Several critics, on the other hand, felt that the main plot was too mean to be humorous. Gage Henry of Paste felt that the episode was weak because "one [of its storylines was] rather flimsy and the other ending up too atrocious to watch."[7] He noted that the formula of "Jim tries to conduct one normal day at the office while Michael is out making an ass of himself somewhere" was "becoming bland".[7] Ultimately, however, he could not decide if the episode "was commendably funny, or if it was as humorous as a child realizing that Santa Claus doesn’t exist."[7] Henry graded the episode a 6 out of 10.[7] Steve Marsi at TVFanatic did not enjoy it and was succinct in his review: "Last night's 'Scott's Tots' was not one of The Office's best. [...] it was actually a little depressing. Promising kids college tuition, then yanking it away?"[8]
The episode has become notorious among fans of the show as one of its most awkward and uncomfortable episodes.[9][10][11] Jenna Fischer and Angela Kinsey discussed the episode with B. J. Novak for their Office Ladies podcast on April 13, 2022.


"Special Project" is the fourteenth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 166th episode overall. The episode aired on NBC in the United States on February 9, 2012. It was written by Amelie Gillette and was directed by David Rogers.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) returns from her maternity leave, and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) must select employees to accompany Dwight to Tallahassee, Florida after he is sent on an assignment. Meanwhile, Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) receives a beanie from warehouse worker Val (Ameenah Kaplan) and is unsure if she intended it as a romantic gift or simply one of friendship.
"Special Project" introduced a six-episode arc which featured several of the office workers working on a special project for Sabre in Tallahassee. The episode received largely positive reviews from critics, with many reviewers looking forward to the "special projects" storyline. The ending scene featuring Cathy's phone conversation about Jim and Pam's marriage has also received significant attention from critics. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Special Project" drew 5.16 million viewers and received a 2.5 rating/6% share in the 18–49 demographic, marking a three-tenths drop in ratings from the previous episode, "Jury Duty", and becoming one of the lowest-rated episodes of the series. Despite this, it was the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Just as Pam Halpert's (Jenna Fischer) maternity leave ends and Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) also returns, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) is assigned with the task of forming a team and traveling down to Florida for three weeks to help Sabre launch a chain of retail stores. He and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) must select employees to accompany Dwight to Tallahassee. At first Dwight chooses Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith), Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein), Angela, and Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez), for varying reasons, but Andy refuses to let so many essential employees leave for three weeks. While letting Dwight have Darryl and Phyllis, Andy chooses Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling), Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) and Cathy Simms (Lindsey Broad) to join the team instead, upsetting Dwight. Dwight then prematurely announces the picks and deliberately riles up the employees, hoping to change the team. Andy decides to let people convince him why they should go before making his final decision, further stressing Dwight.
Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) receives a text from Robert California (James Spader), which seems to invite him on the trip to Tallahassee. After unsuccessfully trying to back out via text, Jim and Pam both agree Jim should just go. During Jim's request session with Andy and Dwight, Jim shows the texts from California, shocking both Andy and Dwight, making it all but official that Jim will be going to Tallahassee. The final team includes Cathy, Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker), Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) and Jim, infuriating Dwight. At first he tries to convince the members to change their minds using various Florida stereotypes, at one point filling the conference room with 300 mosquitoes, but after realizing they all have excellent ideas for the project, he is content with the team.
Erin expresses frustration that Andy is still with Jessica.  After Andy and Dwight jointly choose her for the project team, she admits in a talking head that she is not going to return to Scranton once she arrives in Florida. At the end of the episode, it is revealed that Cathy also has ulterior motives for the trip, intending to seduce Jim while the two are in Florida together, stating, during a cell phone conversation to a friend, that "[Jim's] marriage is not good; nobody knows better than me. Definitely we will. It's three weeks in Tallahassee. What else is there to do?"
Darryl discovers warehouse worker Val (Ameenah Kaplan) has knitted him a beanie. Unsure if she intended it as a romantic gift or simply one of friendship, Darryl decides to find out by giving her a Valentine's Day gift of an expensive pair of cashmere ladies' gloves with a romantic card. Upon discovering that Val had knitted a beanie for everyone in the warehouse, an embarrassed Darryl passes the gloves off to warehouse worker Nate (Mark Proksch), who is moved by the gift, and later gives him personal coupons for repayment. Darryl is further disappointed when a man named Brandon calls asking for the address of the warehouse to send flowers to his girlfriend Val. He is intrigued, however, when she says the flowers were from her mother, despite him pointing out the caller had had a deep voice and gone by the name Brandon. Darryl decides Val's gift was "a love beanie".
The episode was written by story editor Amelie Gillette, her second writing credit for the series after joining the writing staff in the seventh season.[2] It was directed by series producer and editor David Rogers, his fifth directing credit for the series.[2] The episode also marks the eighth appearance of Lindsey Broad, who plays Cathy, Pam's replacement during her maternity leave.[3] She makes an appearance in the episode, despite the fact that Pam arrives back in work, which is referenced in the episode by Meredith Palmer.[2][4] The episode introduced a six-episode arc which featured several of the office workers working on a special project for Sabre in Tallahassee, Florida.[5] The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include more clips of Dwight forming his group, Cathy mentioning a former boyfriend to the camera, and more clips of the office workers attempting to join the special projects group.[6]
Stanley says that he's the only one in the office who watches the television series, Burn Notice.[7] Dwight says after finishing work on the special project in Florida, they will be able to go visit Cape Canaveral and go sea kayaking with Gloria Estefan.[7] While attempting to convince his group not to go to Florida, pictures of Casey Anthony, Katherine Harris, Brooke Hogan and Tony Montana are used.[4]
The episode first aired on NBC in the United States on February 9, 2012.[1][2] The episode was viewed by an estimated 5.16 million viewers and received a 2.5 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[8] This means that it was seen by 2.5% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a three-tenths drop in the ratings from the previous episode, "Jury Duty".[8][9] The episode finished third in its time slot, being beaten by Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.9 rating/10% share and the CBS drama Person of Interest which received a 3.3 rating/8% share in the 18–49 demographic.[8] The episode beat the Fox drama series The Finder and The CW drama series The Secret Circle.[8] Despite this, "Special Project" was the highest-rated NBC television episode of the night.[8] After DVR usage was taken into account, the episode increased its viewership by 64%, being viewed by a total of 7.842 million viewers.[10]
"Special Project" received mainly positive reviews from critics, with many looking forward to the "special projects" plotline. The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt praised the episode and the introduction of the special projects plotline, comparing it to the third season arc featuring Jim in Stamford, Connecticut, and the "Michael Scott Paper Company" arc from the fifth season.[7] He praised the episode for feeling "like a big answer to many of the issues that have plagued the show so far this season", specifically pointing to Dwight's meta-commentary on Cathy's "lack of personality".[7] He moreover wrote that he was looking forward to the rest of the season and the change in dynamic.[7] Despite this, he criticized Dwight's role in the episode, comparing his orientation to Michael's conference room lectures and wrote he had a "distaste" for the broader moments for the character.[7] He ultimately gave the episode an A−, his highest grade for an eighth-season episode.[7]
New York writer Michael Tedder gave the episode a positive review for avoiding the "cutesy" moments that were featured in the first half of the season.[4] He praised several of the cast members' performances in the episode, including Ellie Kemper and Mark Proksch.[4] He also complimented the sub-plot featuring Darryl and Val, but wrote that the producers should just get the two together, because "Not every ongoing plotline needs to last all season".[4] IGN writer Cindy White wrote a positive review for the episode for allowing the "less prominent characters of the ensemble" to get some lines in the episode, specifically mentioning Stanley and Ryan.[11] She also complimented the Darryl-Val subplot, writing that they're one of the few romantic pairings on the show that she's "rooting" for.[11] She ultimately gave the episode an 8.0/10, calling it "impressive".[11]
However, not all reviews were positive. Lizzie Fhur of Buzz Sugar wrote that while the "special projects" storyline has potential, "this week just kind of landed flat for me".[12] Brian Marder of Hollywood called the episode a "giant step back", especially following the previous episode which he called "promising".[13] He wrote that the jokes and story of the episode went "nowhere" and he criticized the episode for its loud, "laugh-track-worthy" jokes compared to the early seasons of the series that featured more subtle humor.[13] Despite the mostly negative review, he wrote that he hoped the episode would lead to a better storyline in the following episodes.[13] The ending scene featuring Cathy's phone conversation about Jim and Pam's marriage has also received significant attention.[4][7][11] Cindy White criticized the suggestion that Cathy will break Jim and Pam, calling it a "cheap plow" and that if Cathy and Jim would have an affair, it would cause "serious damage to [Jim's] character",[11] while Myles McNutt felt it would allow Cathy to become an actual character in the series.[7]

"Couples Discount" is the fifteenth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 191st episode overall. It originally aired on NBC on February 7, 2013. The episode features return guest appearances from Melora Hardin, Andy Buckley, and Chris Diamantopoulos.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, the office pairs into couples so that they may all be able to take advantage of a Valentine's Day discount at a mini-mall. After Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) returns from his boat trip, Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) decides that she is going to break up with him so that she can be with Pete Miller (Jake Lacy), but Pete begins to doubt her. Meanwhile, Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) share lunch with Brian (Chris Diamantopoulos).
"Couples Discount" marked the final appearance for Melora Hardin (Jan Levinson). The episode received mixed reviews from television critics and was viewed by 4.15 million viewers and received 2.1/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode ultimately ranked fourth in its timeslot. Despite this, The Office ranked as the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
The office pairs into couples so they may all be able to take advantage of a Valentine's Day discount at a nail salon in a local mini-mall and enjoy one last boss-free day before Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) returns from his three-month boating sojourn. Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) decides that she is going to break up with Andy so she can be with Pete Miller (Jake Lacy), but he begins to doubt her because she goes to inordinate lengths to make their last day without Andy a happy one. At the salon, Daryl (Craig Robinson) is uneasy about posing as part of a same-sex couple with Oscar Oscar Nunez, while Nellie does pose as part of a couple with Clark but is so rude to him that he tells the staff that they're not together and Nellie was lying to get the discount; Nellie sourly tells the camera crew she can't even make a fake relationship work.
Andy surprises everyone by showing up a day early and proceeds to alienate the entire office through a series of selfish and arrogant actions: he arrives at work without having washed or shaved since he left, he wrecks Dwight Schrute's (Rainn Wilson) record-setting sale with the Scranton White Pages while trying to reassert his authority as boss (in a later episode, Andy confesses that he intentionally ruined the sale out of spite), shows no shame at accepting all of his absentee paychecks and a "merit bonus" because the branch exceeded their quarterly sales goal while he was gone, and holds a meeting to get up to speed on recent events so he can bluff his way through a meeting with CEO David Wallace (Andy Buckley), who has no idea that Andy was gone at all. The employees decide not to tell David about Andy's unapproved absence, but at the meeting they cannot resist crafting made-up recent events in the hope that he will blow his own cover. However, when David meets with Andy he is almost completely oblivious to Andy's erroneous statements, and Andy is able to bluff his way through the meeting. He later expresses low-key anger with the staff over their attempt to sabotage him, and they respond by treating him with silent contempt.
Pam (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) share lunch with Brian (Chris Diamantopoulos) to thank him for protecting her from Frank. They are expecting his wife Alyssa to join him, but Brian reveals they are getting a divorce after having been fighting for a while. In an awkward attempt to lighten the mood, Brian makes a joke referencing how he consoled Pam when she broke down after her fight with Jim over the phone in "Customer Loyalty". After the lunch Jim admits, with some prodding, that he is angry that Pam did not tell him about this incident. Pam explains that she had not wanted to add to his worries, which only makes Jim angrier, but he brushes the matter off to avoid an argument. The couple had planned on sharing an evening bottle of wine for Valentine's Day, but Jim later tells Pam he wants to go down to Philadelphia instead because he fears they would only end up fighting on Valentine’s Day. Pam initially accepts this, but realizing that the silence between them is even worse than fighting, she tells Jim he should stay and fight with her, and Jim agrees.
At the end of the day, Erin tries to break up with Andy, saying she no longer loves him and is angry that he left and barely communicated with her. Andy vehemently protests the breakup and says their relationship can work out if she just pretends to still love him, using the example of his own parents (oblivious to the horrible end of their marriage). Erin walks outside to Pete, saying she could not do it. Pete tells her he is okay with this, since all he wants is for her to be happy. Emboldened by his selfless response, she kisses him, runs back up to Andy's office, and breaks up with him, also asserting the fact that she thought he had died. In her brief breakup speech she repeats her complaints about his three-month absence, not realizing that he is talking to David on speakerphone. Andy looks horrified as David says "What was that about three months?"
"Couples Discount" was written by co-executive producer Allison Silverman, marking her second writing credit for the season after "Roy's Wedding".[2][3] It was directed by Troy Miller, his third directorial credit for the series.[2] Originally, it was reported that the episode would be titled "Andy's Return".[4] However, it was later renamed to "Couples Discount".[5] The episode features the return of series regular Ed Helms, who had left for several episodes to film The Hangover Part III.[6] His character was written out for eight episodes, leaving the office on a boat trip to the Bahamas for three months with his brother Walter.[6]
"Couples Discount" originally aired on NBC on February 7, 2013.[1] In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by an estimated 4.15 million viewers and received a 2.1 rating/6% share.[7] This means that it was seen by 2.1 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a slight increase in the ratings from the previous episode, "Vandalism".[7][8] The Office ranked fourth in its timeslot, being beaten by an episode of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy and the CBS police procedural Person of Interest, both of which received a 3.1/8 percent rating, and an installment of the Fox series Glee that received a 2.2/6 percent rating.[7]
"Couples Discount" received mixed reviews. The A.V. Club reviewer Erik Adams complimented the transformation of Andy into a villain, calling it "intriguing" and "curious", although he said the characterization would not "stick" to the character for the following episodes. Adams gave more praise to the subplots, particularly Jim and Pam's storyline, calling it a "refreshingly honest take on the vagaries of marriage" and compared their decision to fight at home to the early "Pam-and-Jim charm". Adams gave the episode a B−.[9] TV.com columnist Nick Campbell complimented the choice of using Andy as a villain, for further developing the Erin-Pete relationship, which he called "one of two satisfying events in this episode". He also praised the Jim and Pam storyline and the writers for focusing on their relationship, rather than Brian, writing that their final scene was "almost sweet, how nervous they were about heading into the Thunderdome". He criticized the plot inconsistency and the nail salon plot for feeling "jammed in" and for using predictable jokes. Campbell ultimately called it a "satisfying episode".[10]
IGN's Roth Cornet was more critical towards Andy's return, writing that it serves as further example of the writers treating him as a plot device, rather than a character. Cornet continued that the episode featured "some fairly compelling drama, as well as some of the more cohesive moments of the season, character-wise", but "very little comedy". Cornet complimented the turn in the Jim-Pam-Brian storyline, and for the writers using Brian as a catalyst for a "real conversation between Pam and Jim", instead of a love triangle between the three. She also went on to praise their final scene, for showcasing "what The Office has created with these two characters – a human, and real relationship." Cornet gave the episode a 6.9, considering it an "okay" episode.[11]


"Stairmageddon" is the nineteenth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office. It originally aired on NBC on April 11, 2013. The episode features guest appearances from Roseanne Barr as Andy's agent Carla Fern and Paul Feig as a man auditioning his act for Carla.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, the office workers are forced to walk up the stairs while the elevator is being serviced. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) kidnaps Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) to assist in an important sales call. Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) talk with Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) and Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) about marital troubles. Meanwhile, Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) supports her husband during a press conference.
"Stairmageddon" received mixed reviews from television critics. The episode was viewed by 3.84 million viewers and received a 1.9/5 percent among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode ranked second in its timeslot and The Office was the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Everyone in the office grows anxious as the premiere of the PBS TV documentary The Office: An American Workplace draws near. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) combines an unflattering appraisal of himself from an early newspaper review of the program and his blunt self-assessment that he is unlikely to remain employed at Dunder Mifflin for very long after it airs, and decides it is time to pursue his dreams of stardom. After many fruitless calls to dismissive talent agencies, he finds himself at the dual talent agency/real estate office run by Carla Fern (Roseanne Barr). Carla agrees to represent Andy, who is thrilled that he only has to pay $5,000 for the privilege.
The office workers are forced to use the stairs while the elevator is being serviced, a situation everyone deems "Stairmageddon". The out-of-shape Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) undergoes a painful struggle in climbing the stairs, only to be greeted at the top by Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) ordering him to take part in an important sales call. Unwilling to climb the stairs a second time, Stanley refuses. Since the client is a friend of Stanley’s sister, Dwight (who is operating without concern for niceties now that the documentary has driven home the point that he will never be the branch manager at Dunder Mifflin) cannot take no for an answer, so after getting Andy's permission to bring Stanley through "whatever means possible," he shoots Stanley with bull tranquilizers. With help from Clark Green (Clark Duke), Dwight gets Stanley to the car, injuring him various times in the process. The tranquilizers inexplicably make Stanley intoxicated, and his unusually jolly mood helps them close the sale. When Stanley regains full awareness, he is pleased to learn that he made a sale with no effort whatsoever, but still refuses to take the stairs again. He instead knocks himself out with one of Dwight's darts, leaving Dwight and Clark to figure out how to get him back upstairs.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) talks with Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) about his going to marriage counseling with Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer), and Pam does the same with Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate). Toby points out to Jim that it is not fair to tell Pam that he needs an indeterminate amount of time before Athlead pays off for the family; Pam vents to Nellie that Jim is always making unilateral decisions involving her and they each agree they are not leaving Philly for Scranton or vice versa. At the end of the day, Nellie and Toby both complain to each other about how exhausting Jim and Pam are, while the Halperts leave the office looking sad and awkward together.
Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) agrees to be the supportive "good wife" for her state senator husband Robert at a press conference in the aftermath of the documentary's reveal of his affair with Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez). Angela assumes this means he intends to deny the affair and reassert his devotion to family values. Instead, Robert tells the press that he is gay and further humiliates Angela by insinuating that his relations with her drove him to homosexuality. Oscar is also dumbstruck when Robert, while openly proclaiming his affair with Oscar, says that he is in love with his chief of staff, Wesley Silver. Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) happily gloats to the office staff about his keeping Oscar's secret to the very end, and is immensely relieved that he doesn't have to keep it secret anymore.
"Stairmageddon" was written by executive producer Dan Sterling, his second writing credit for the series after the ninth season entry, "The Boat".[2] It was directed by series cinematographer Matt Sohn, his eighth directorial effort for the series, following the ninth season entry, "Suit Warehouse".[3] Comedian Roseanne Barr guest stars in this episode. It was announced on January 31, 2013 that she would be doing a two episode arc and would play a talent agent named Carla Fern. Barr began filming her scenes the week following January 31.[4] Director Paul Feig also guest stars in the episode, his first time appearing in the series.[5] He previously directed several episodes of the series, with his last entry being "Goodbye, Michael" in season seven.[5]
"Stairmageddon" originally aired on April 11, 2013 on NBC.[1] In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by an estimated 3.83 million viewers and received a 1.9 rating/5 percent share.[6] This means that it was seen by 1.9 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 5 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a slight increase in the ratings from the previous episode, "Promos".[7] The Office ranked second in its timeslot, being beaten by an installment of the Fox series Glee which received a 2.4/6 rating.[6]
"Stairmageddon" received mixed reviews from television critics, with praise going to the drama in the Jim-Pam storyline, while the zaniness of other storylines received more mixed opinions. The A.V. Club reviewer Erik Adams complimented the drama between Jim and Pam, writing that it has "been given just the right amount of weight". He criticized the episode for being "one of the loudest tonal clashes in the history of The Office", comparing it negatively to the previous episode, "Promos". He said that the other storylines seemed crammed into the episode, particularly due to the writers' decision to flesh out the supporting cast. Adams gave the episode a C.[8] M. Giant of Television Without Pity awarded the episode a "B".[9]
Roth Cornet of IGN called "Stairmageddon" an "odd one" for feeling like both a standalone episode that utilized the full ensemble, but also "one of the final five episodes of this nine-year series", due to the Jim-Pam and Dwight-Angela storylines. He praised the Jim-Pam storyline for its realism and depth, but worried that their eventual reconciliation would not feel earned, due to the few episodes left in the series. He praised the Dwight-Clark-Stanley storyline, writing that "the true comedy in the episode came primarily from Dwight" and called it Clark Duke's "strongest appearance to date". Cornet gave the episode a 7.8 out of 10, calling it "Good".[10] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic called the episode "the funniest episode on television this week", considering it a "gem" from the season. Forcella also praised the Jim-Pam-Dwight dynamic throughout the episode and the humor coming from Andy's storyline. He awarded the episode 5 stars out of 5.[11]
Roseanne Barr's performance was later submitted by the producers of The Office for an "Outstanding Guest Actor in Comedy Series" Emmy consideration.[12]



"Business School" is the seventeenth episode of the third season of the American version of The Office and the show's 45th overall. In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is invited by Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) to speak to his business school class. When many of the students question the usefulness of paper in a computerized world, Michael attempts to inform the class of how essential paper is. Meanwhile, a bat becomes trapped in the office, leading Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) on a mission to protect the employees.
The episode was written by Brent Forrester and directed by Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Firefly creator Joss Whedon. Whedon became involved with the show due to being a friend of series creator Greg Daniels as well as series co-star Jenna Fischer. Despite Whedon's experience with Buffy the Vampire Slayer, the subplot about Dwight coming to believe that Jim Halpert is a vampire was entirely coincidental.
The episode aired on NBC on February 15, 2007, and was seen by an estimated 8.84 million viewers according to Nielsen Media Research. It was positively received by television critics, with several writing positively of Joss Whedon's involvement. Carell's performance was also positively received, and several critics applauded the scene in which Michael praises Pam's art.
Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) invites Michael Scott (Steve Carell) to speak at his business-school class. Michael is excited, but Ryan admits in a talking head interview that he has only invited Michael because his professor promised to bump up the grade of any student who brings their boss into class. During his introduction of Michael, Ryan predicts that Dunder Mifflin will become obsolete within five to ten years. However, Michael could not hear him and proceeds to ruin the event with his antics (including tearing pages out of a student's textbook to prove you "can't learn from textbooks"). One of Ryan's classmates asks for Michael's opinion of Ryan's prediction, which Michael only just learns about. Infuriated and hurt, Michael rants about how Ryan has not made a sale before punishing him by relocating his desk to the "annex," where Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) works. Kelly babbles uncontrollably in excitement at the news.
Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) discovers a bat in the ceiling. It flies through the office, sending the employees scurrying for cover. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) exploit Dwight's paranoia, and pretend that Jim was bitten by the bat and is turning into a vampire. Jim calls animal control, but Dwight insists on catching the bat himself even after 5 p.m. passes and the other employees go home, except Meredith (Kate Flannery), who continues to hide in the breakroom for fear of the bat. Dwight eventually catches the bat with a garbage bag after it lands on Meredith's head.
Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), in the meantime, invites her co-workers to her art show after work. At the show, Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) and his partner Gil (Tom Chick) critique her art, with Gil dismissing it as "motel art," not realizing that she is standing right behind them. None of her other co-workers show, leaving her feeling alienated and sad. Roy comes by and compliments her work, but obviously does so as a "boyfriend's gesture" with no sincere appreciation for art. The general attendees show little interest in her drawings, and she begins to doubt her abilities. As she begins to take her work down, Michael arrives, having been delayed by the trip back to the office to move Ryan's things. He expresses sincere awe for her work and asks to buy her drawing of the office building, saying that he is very proud of her. Pam embraces him as her eyes tear up. Michael hangs Pam's drawing on the wall next to his office.
"Business School" was the second Office episode written by Brent Forrester. Forrester had previously written "The Merger." The episode was the first to be directed by Joss Whedon. Whedon, who is a friend of both producer Greg Daniels and Jenna Fischer, and also met most of the production staff prior to the episode, stated that he chose to direct the episode "because I already know the writing staff and a bunch of the cast, and I adore the show."[1] When informed that the episode was about a bat entering into the office and one of the characters pretending to be a vampire, Whedon thought that it was a joke; in reference to Buffy the Vampire Slayer, he quipped to the crew, "Didn't I just leave this party?" In an interview featured on the third season DVD, Whedon joked that the "Business School" episode and his former TV show were very similar because "Buffy…was sad and depressing but…it was funny. Especially when people died. And a lot of people do die in ['Business School']."[2] But upon completing the episode, Whedon said, "That was just coincidence. But that's how that happened. God, it was fun."[1] Whedon stated that he was surprised with the amount of input he was allowed with the script. "I wouldn't say freedom to do things with it… But way more input was asked for than I would have ever anticipated."[1] At Pam's art show, the pieces which she was supposed to have painted did not suit Whedon; he explained, "I got to the set and saw Pam's art, and I was like, 'This is not right.'"[1] Whedon said that he held up filming for more than an hour until the staff was able create new pieces of art.[1]
For the scenes which involved filming with a bat, the production team used an actual bat, an animated bat, and a mechanical bat. When around the actual bat, Kate Flannery, who portrays Meredith Palmer, stated that "we had to be extremely quiet around [it], basically pretending to scream."[3] California State University, Northridge served as the backdrop for Ryan's business school and the art show; the scenes at the institution were shot in January 2007.[4]
"Business School" first aired on February 15, 2007, in the United States on NBC. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was watched by an estimated 8.84 million viewers. The Office garnered a 4.4/11 rating in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic. This means that it was seen by 4.4 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 11 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[5]
The episode received generally good reviews from critics.  Brian Zoromski, of IGN, stated that "'Business School' was an exercise in what works best in an Office episode."[6] Zoromski also praised Joss Whedon's directorial debut for the show, stating that "Whedon's direction and sense of humor was both excellently put to use and alluded to in the scenes in which Jim hilariously pretended to become a vampire."[6] Zoromski went on to say that the acting of John Krasinski and Rashida Jones, who portrays Karen Filippelli, helped to make the vampire scenes the funniest parts of the episode. He gave the episode a 9.1 out of 10.[6] Abby West, of Entertainment Weekly, stated that "This show has always been able to turn on a dime and take the comedy to a soul-stirring dramatic climax with just the lightest of touches, and last night was no different."[7] West went on to praise Michael and Pam's scene at the art show as one of these moments.[7]
In a retrospective review of the show's third season, Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode an "A". Adams highlighted Carell's acting, writing, "On this rewatch, I found myself slack-jawed at how deep Carell gets into Michael's 'saying something without saying anything' style."[8] Adams also applauded the way that Carell's character brings honesty to the final scene in which Michael praises Pam's art and offers to buy it for the office, writing, "The boss should keep his mouth shut more often, but every once in a while, that constant stream of bad jokes, misattributed information, and banalities produces a warm and uplifting sentiment."[8] Finally, Adams compared "Business School" with previous television episodes that Joss Whedon has written, noting that the characters' "triumphs over naysayers and foreboding villains" (e.g., Pam receiving harsh criticism about her art only to be vindicated in the end, Michael being humiliated in Ryan's business class but ultimately affirming his strength as an effective salesman) was akin to how Whedon often wrote his heroes triumphing over seasonal "Big Bads".[8]


"Did I Stutter?" is the sixteenth episode of the fourth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's sixty-ninth episode overall. Written by Brent Forrester and Justin Spitzer, and directed by Randall Einhorn, the episode first aired in the United States on May 1, 2008 on NBC.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is shocked when Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) yells at him, and is unsure how to handle the situation. Michael tries to assert his power over Stanley, by pretending to fire him, but that only makes matters worse. The two eventually end up alone in the office. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) receives a warning about his job performance, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) is forced to wear her glasses, and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) buys Andy Bernard's (Ed Helms) car.
Originally, episode writers Justin Spitzer and Brent Forrester were supposed to write two separate episodes. However, the effects of the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike forced the two to share an episode. "Did I Stutter?" contained several pop culture references. It received largely positive reviews from critics, who praised the interaction between Carell and Baker. The episode earned a Nielsen rating of 3.9 in the 18–49 demographic, being viewed by 7.76 million viewers.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) calls an emergency meeting asking everyone to come up with an idea to "reinvigorate" the office. Michael asks Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) for ideas, but Stanley is preoccupied with a crossword puzzle and refuses to participate. Michael keeps asking him, and Stanley snaps, "Did I stutter?" in a loud, threatening tone, after which Michael ends the meeting. Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) encourages Michael to take disciplinary action against Stanley, and Michael, initially resistant, pretends to fire him to teach him a lesson. Stanley responds by threatening to sue him and tell corporate of Michael's antics. When Michael tells Stanley that the firing was actually an attempt at teaching him a lesson, Stanley goes on a rant, yelling and insulting Michael. Michael barks at him to stop it, and tells everyone to leave the office, making everyone think he is about to berate Stanley. The camera crew sneak back in to film the exchange, where Michael tearfully (much to Stanley's annoyance) asks Stanley why he picks on him. Stanley states that he simply does not respect him, and when Michael suggests that Stanley does not know him very well he replies "Michael, I've known you for a very long time. And the more I've gotten to know you, the less I've come to respect you." Michael then takes a professional tone with Stanley, and says that, while he accepts that Stanley does not respect him, he cannot take such a disrespectful tone with him, because he is his boss. Stanley responds by saying, "Fair enough," and the two shake hands.
Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), after spending the night at "a friend's" (Jim's) house, forgot her contact lens solution, so she must wear her glasses. She finds it difficult to handle Michael's criticism and Kevin's sexual advances, and spends the rest of the day without her glasses, reducing her productivity. Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) comes to Dunder Mifflin's Scranton branch. After a talk with Toby, Ryan tells Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) that he is giving him an official warning about his job performance. Ryan denies that his action is motivated by Jim's previous complaints to David Wallace, saying he thrives on constructive criticism (while Toby's comments to the documentary crew indicate he is not upset about the warning, owing to his envy of Jim's relationship with Pam).
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) is selling his 2001 Nissan Xterra for $8,700. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) pressures him into selling it for $1,500 less than the asking price, because according to Dwight, "[the] car is crap". Dwight assures Andy that he will only use it as a wagon, dragged by a mule on Dwight's beet farm. Andy sells it to Dwight, who, in a passive-aggressive method of getting back at him for dating Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), washes it and posts a sign asking for $9,995 for the vehicle, which upsets Andy when he finds Dwight's advertisement posted on the cabinet in the office kitchen. Dwight declares that it is already on eBay, where he claims it is the subject of a three-way bidding war.
The episode was the fourth episode of the series directed by Randall Einhorn. Einhorn had previously directed the third season episodes "Initiation", "Ben Franklin" and "Product Recall", as well as the ten summer webisodes "The Accountants".[1][2][3][4] It was Einhorn's idea to show the cameramen sneaking back into the office after Michael told everyone to leave. This aspect of the episode was praised by fans as well as the cast and crew. Brent Forrester, the co-writer of the episode, noted that Einhorn's "energy doubled when shooting that" scene.[5]
"Did I Stutter?" was written by Justin Spitzer and Brent Forrester. Although the two writers initially planned to write separate episodes, the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike forced the two to share an episode. Forrester and Spitzer initially disagreed about what the episode's title should be. Forrester wanted to name it "Did I Stutter?"—a phrase popularized by Judd Nelson's character Bender in the 1985 film The Breakfast Club—while Spitzer wanted a name like "The Reprimand" or "Insubordination".[5] Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg wrote the scenes featuring Andy and Angela playing Mad Libs. Justin Spitzer called the sequence "amazing".[5]
In the opening scene in which Michael puts his face in cement, the wet cement that was used was actually putty. The crew was planning to do only one take of Steve Carell putting his face in the putty, so he was instructed to hold his breath as long as he possibly could. But the crew forgot to tell the other actors about that, so during the filming of the scene, the actors thought he was actually stuck and there was a rush to pull him out.[5] Kim M. Ferry, owner of the Nissan Xterra featured in the episode, is the show's Department Head Hairstylist. After it was used on the show, she decided to sell it on eBay. The listing was first put up on eBay on May 1, 2008, the night the episode aired.[5]
The Season Four DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Michael trying to convince Jim, Pam, and Kelly, while they are in the break room having lunch that Stanley talks badly about everyone behind their backs, Michael making Pam stand up during the meeting and confessing that she wears glasses, Jim talking to Toby about the warning (in contrast to how Toby seems happy that Jim is getting in trouble during the broadcast episode, here the HR head makes it clear that Jim's sales performance is good and that Ryan is the sole person who is not happy with his work), and Ryan saying that "going after Jim" is "a risky move", since CFO David Wallace likes Jim.[6]
Andy and Angela play Mad Libs, a phrasal template word game where one player prompts another for a list of words to substitute for blanks in a story, usually with funny results. Ryan chides Jim for being a fan of the Philadelphia Eagles, a professional American football team.[7] While Daryl is telling Michael how gang members deal with problems, he mentions that he was a member of the Newsies (the name of a 1992 musical drama) and The Warriors (the gang in the 1979 cult action film of the same name).[8] Near the end of the episode, Michael does a succession of comedian impressions. These include badly performed spoofs of Rodney Dangerfield, Henny Youngman, Jeff Foxworthy, Sacha Baron Cohen as Borat Sagdiyev, and Jerry Seinfeld.[7]
"Did I Stutter?" originally aired on NBC in the United States on May 1, 2008.[9] The episode received 3.9/10 in the ages 18–49 demographic in the Nielsen ratings. This means that 3.9 percent of all households with an 18- to 49-year-old living in it watched the episode, and ten percent had their televisions tuned to the channel at any point. The episode was watched by 7.67 million viewers.[10]
The episode was highly acclaimed by critics, with many praising the performance from Leslie David Baker. Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club gave the episode an "A", citing the dynamic between Michael and Stanley as its main strengths.[8] He was also complimentary towards the cold opening and the realistic way in which Michael and Stanley's confrontation was filmed.[8] Ultimately, Rabin concluded that the interaction between Carell and Baker was reason to "love the Stanley/Michael dynamic" and that the episode "was all about rage and conflict".[8] M. Giant of Television Without Pity awarded the episode an "A−".[7]
Rick Porter of Zap2It said that even though the episode "was long on uncomfortable and even disturbing behavior" and "only out-and-out funny in a few spots" he found himself "respecting it a fair amount at the end".[11] BuddyTV Senior Writer Oscar Dahl said that "the insubordination of Stanley was a necessary plot point to cover" because "without it, too much Stanley being Stanley becomes unbelievable".[12] Furthermore, he wrote that there "was a lot of really funny stuff tonight" and highlighted "the scene between Darryl and Michael" due to Robinson's acting.[12] Aubry D'Arminio from Entertainment Weekly stated that "Mike's embarrassment, and his unwillingness at first to admit he is disliked, was very very well played on Carell's part."[13] Furthermore, D'Arminio praised several of the episode's lines of dialogue and wrote "I cannot even come near to picking a favorite quote [...] for this episode"[13]


"A.A.R.M." is the collective name for the twenty-second and twenty-third episodes of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office, as well as the 198th and 199th episode overall. It was also the series' penultimate entry, airing a week before the series finale. It originally aired on NBC on May 9, 2013. This episode guest stars Nora Kirkpatrick, Aaron Rodgers, Clay Aiken, Mark McGrath, Santigold, Jessica St. Clair, and Rachel Crow.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) convinces Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) that he needs to choose someone to act as an Assistant to the Assistant to the Regional Manager (A.A.R.M.); the two subsequently hold tryouts for the position. Angela Lipton (Angela Kinsey) is forced to bring her son, Phillip, to work, and Dwight thinks that he may be his son. Pam Halpert's (Jenna Fischer) final fears about her husband's love are settled. Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) attempts to get on America's Next A Cappella Sensation, but is not able to audition. Finally, all the members of the office gather at Poor Richard's Pub and watch the airing of the official in-series documentary.
"A.A.R.M." features a dramatic scene in which Jim presents a DVD of the highlights of his relationship with Pam, topped with him finally presenting her with a card he wrote in the second season episode "Christmas Party". The idea to have Jim finally give Pam his card had been considered in the writers' room for some time, but only during "A.A.R.M." did the writers feel it was the right time. In addition, the episode contained several scenes that were purposely staged to be reminiscent of past episodes of the series, with scenes mimicking unique shots in both the third season installment "Gay Witch Hunt" and the sixth season episode "The Delivery".
The episode was also viewed by 4.56 million viewers and received a 2.3/6 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking third in its timeslot, making it the highest-rated episode of the season since the earlier entry "The Boat". "A.A.R.M." received largely positive reviews from critics. The interaction between Jim, Pam, and Dwight received particular praise; many were particularly pleased with the call-back to "Christmas Party". Andy's audition subplot, however, was highly panned.
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) convinces regional manager Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) that he needs to choose someone to act as an Assistant to the Assistant to the Regional Manager (A.A.R.M.). Jim designs several Dwight-oriented challenges as tryouts for the position, and it is inevitably found that Dwight is the most qualified. Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) is forced to bring her child, Phillip, to work, after her daycare turns her child away. Dwight, upon overhearing that Phillip has been eating the type of paper which Dwight himself regards as the most flavorful, begins to think that Angela's son is his. To test this theory, Dwight offers the child either a check for one million dollars or a beet; Phillip picks the beet. Dwight tells Angela that he will marry her if the child is his, but she denies that this is the case. Dwight then confers with Jim, asking whether he should propose to Angela or his girlfriend Esther, whom he thinks is the more logical choice. Jim tells Dwight that he needs to put aside logic and follow his instincts. Dwight makes up his mind and proposes to Angela, who says yes. Angela reveals to Dwight that Phillip is his son, explaining that she lied about his parentage in order to test Dwight's feelings for her.
Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) returns to Scranton, after quietly quitting a week ago to work full-time at Athlead, the sports marketing company that Jim founded. When the others spot him, they are upset that he left without saying goodbye and demand to spend some time with him before he leaves for good. They ultimately decide on one final dance together. Everyone has a fun time, and Darryl is glad he got to say a real goodbye.
When Darryl runs into Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer), he tells her about the company's success and how Jim is missing out by staying in Scranton. Pam begins to worry that she is making Jim do something that he does not want to do. She confronts her husband and admits that she thinks she might not be good enough for him. He asks for the in-series documentary crew's help; the crew makes a DVD of the highlights that they have collected of Jim and Pam's relationship. The final scene that they use is from the second season Christmas episode "Christmas Party," in which Jim gives Pam a teapot but takes back his accompanying card. After Pam watches the DVD, Jim presents her with the still-unopened card. She reads it, and the two happily embrace.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), who had quit his job in the previous episode, auditions for America's Next A Cappella Sensation. However, before he is able to try out, the judges close the auditions, sending home the remaining applicants, who have been standing in line for hours. Refusing to accept this, he bolts past security and demands the judges let him audition. When they refuse, he throws a crying tantrum. Later, he journeys to Poor Richard's Pub, where he meets his former office workers and is the tie-breaking vote to turn the TVs to the official airing of their documentary on PBS's Scranton affiliate station, WVIA-TV, rather than college baseball. All together, the office watches the opening of the pilot.
"A.A.R.M." was written by executive producer Brent Forrester, marking his eleventh writing credit for the series, his first since the earlier season episode, "Work Bus".[2][3] It was directed by regular Office editor David Rogers, marking his ninth directing credit, and first since the earlier season episode "Junior Salesman".[3][4] The episode was originally supposed to air as a half-hour episode, but NBC later announced it would be expanded to fill an hour time slot. Unlike the previous episodes that were expanded, like "Moving On" and "Livin' the Dream", "A.A.R.M." counts as two produced episodes.[5]
This episode guest stars Aaron Rodgers, Clay Aiken, Mark McGrath, Santigold, and Jessica St. Clair.[6][7] In order to get them, the show reached out to "a small group of celebrities that [the producers] thought would be good".[8] Both Aiken and Santigold accepted. Baumgartner then asked Rodgers, who was a friend, and he accepted. McGrath later became available, and he was chosen as well.[8] Angela's son, Phillip, was played by twins Vince and Evan Edwards. The child that filmed the scene in which Phillip picked the beet was only supposed to point to the beet. In the end, the child said "beet!", which Rogers called "amazing".[8] The voice of the documentarian that responds to Jim is that of episode director David Rogers. Rogers also voiced the same character in the season opener "New Guys". Originally, showrunner and series creator Greg Daniels had re-recorded the line in "New Guys", but ended up liking Rogers' voice better. He asked him to reprise the role in "A.A.R.M." to preserve continuity.[8]
Jules Kmetzko designed the portraits of Dwight and Mose, as well as Dwight's propaganda picture. He had previously created Pam's watercolor of Dunder Mifflin that hung on the walls. All of the dance moves were choreographed by Mary Ann Kellogg, who had choreographed many of the series' dance-heavy episodes. The obstacle course in the warehouse was crafted by Rogers and Forrester, with input from the show's art department. Wilson also helped, since he eventually was the one who ran through it; it was his idea to have the course terminate on a raised pallet of boxes. Originally, the course was supposed to be in the parking lot, but Rogers moved it, feeling that the warehouse was "more organic" and that the heat would have been detrimental to the finished product.[8] The idea to have Jim finally give Pam his card had been considered in the writers' room for some time, but only during "A.A.R.M." did the writers feel it was the right time. The card and envelope was the same one used for "Christmas Party" almost seven years prior. In fact, the card contained a genuine message that Krasinski wrote for Fischer. Rogers admitted that the Pam and Jim video was inspired by a number of fan videos that exist on the internet. The reason that "Open Your Eyes" by Snow Patrol plays over the video is that Claire Scanlon, the series editor, felt that it was similar in style to "Sing" by Travis, which played in the second season episode "The Client".[8]
The episode contained several scenes that were reminiscent of past episodes of the series. The shot in which Jim and Dwight survey the office was filmed to be similar to a scene that featured Dwight and Michael in the third season installment "Gay Witch Hunt". In addition, Dwight pulling Angela over was filmed in a way that recalled the sixth season episode "The Delivery". Although the scene wherein Jim gives advice to Dwight was shot in a similar manner to Jim's farewell to Michael in the seventh season episode "Goodbye, Michael", it was not intentionally supposed to look like it, according to Rogers. In addition, the obstacle course was not a direct reference to the second season episode "Office Olympics", although Rogers understood that there were similarities.[8]
Jim references both Michael J. Fox and the 1985 film Back to the Future during his "nonsense" conference room meeting. Dwight realizes that Phillip is his son after the child looks at a small-scale replica of the Battlestar Galactica, fictional ship from the science fiction series of the same name, in the same way that Dwight does.[9] Dwight's test to see if Phillip is his son has been compared to a similar scene in the 1997 film Kundun, in which Tibetan monks practice a similar ritual.[10] To win over Kevin, Angela and Oscar pretend that baby Phillip presented him with a used iTunes gift card.[9] Darryl and the rest of the office dance to the song "Boogie Wonderland" by Earth, Wind, and Fire.[6] The show Andy auditions for America's Next A Cappella Sensation, is a parody of popular singing shows like American Idol, The Voice, and The Sing-Off. The fictional show is hosted by Mark McGrath, the lead singer from the rock band Sugar Ray.[11] The judges for the show include Aaron Rodgers, Clay Aiken, and Santigold. Rodgers is an American football quarterback for the Green Bay Packers, Aiken is a singer who gained prominence following the second season of American Idol in 2003, and Santigold is an American singer, songwriter, and producer.[6][7] Andy sings both the Cornell University alma mater ("Far Above Cayuga's Waters"), as well as "You're Never Fully Dressed Without a Smile" from the musical Annie. The woman auditioning that he interrupts is Rachel Crow, who achieved fame after competing in season one of The X-Factor.[9]
"A.A.R.M." originally aired on May 9, 2013 on NBC.[6] In its original American broadcast, "A.A.R.M." was viewed by an estimated 4.56 million viewers and received a 2.3 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[12] This means that it was seen by 2.3 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a significant increase, of almost one million viewers, in the ratings from the previous episode, "Livin' the Dream".[12][13] It was also the most-watched episode of The Office since the earlier ninth season episode "The Boat", which had aired on November 8, 2012 and was watched by 4.83 million viewers.[12][14] The episode ranked third in its half-hour timeslot, being beaten by an episode of the ABC drama Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.1/9 rating and an entry of the CBS series Person of Interest which scored a 2.4/7 rating. The Office was also the highest-rated NBC series of the night.[12]
Alan Sepinwall of HitFix gave the episode a positive review, and wrote that "as a quasi-finale, 'A.A.R.M.' was surprisingly ... terrific in most areas." He particularly enjoyed the interaction between Jim and Dwight, calling it "so much fun"; he argued that the show would have probably fared better following Steve Carell's departure had the power dynamic and relationship between Jim and Dwight that was explored in "A.A.R.M." been established earlier in the eighth season. He concluded that "The best parts of 'A.A.R.M.' felt like a fitting close to the non-documentary-viewing portion of the series."[15] M. Giant of Television Without Pity was pleased with the episode, and awarded it an "A" grade, the first for the series since "Goodbye, Michael" almost two seasons ago.[9] Jenna Mullins of E! Online wrote that the episode "was full of emotional moments that seemed like love letters to the fans who have watched the show since the pilot." Mullins also praised the scenes between Jim and Pam, noting that "we collapsed in tears because the couple we've been rooting for ... can still find ways to make us cry."[16]
Nick Campbell of TV.com felt that the episode was "a decent if uneven penultimate episode that gave us one last look at this quirky group of people in their office environment". He was largely happy with the return of the fun-loving version of Jim, noting that "Pam mentioned that she loves 'Goofy Jim' and I,  [sic] have to admit, I love Goofy Jim myself". Campbell felt that the episode dabbled in fan service, but that it was expected and needed for the show to have a successful ending.[17] Roth Cornet of IGN awarded the episode an 8.5 out of 10, denoting a "great" episode. She wrote that "The interplay between Jim, Dwight, and Pam has been the core of the series since Michael Scott's departure, and it was good to see the trio front and center once again as The Office comes to a close." Furthermore, Cornet was happy with Dwight's proposal and the dance party that signaled Darryl's leaving, calling the latter "a slice of bliss".[10]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club gave the episode a "B+". He said that "what benefits 'AARM' most ... is a back-to-basics Jim-and-Dwight storyline" that illustrated the growth that the characters have experienced in the last nine years. He wrote that there were many tender moments in the episode, such as Dwight and Jim's confrontation, Pam and Jim's reaffirmation of love, and Dwight's proposal to Angela. He concluded that "It's that blend of new beginnings and closing circles that makes 'AARM' an effective second-to-last chapter of The Office".[11] Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode four-and-a-half stars out of five, and wrote that the episode "didn't disappoint". He called "the scene in which Pam was watching the docu-created montage just as Jim was giving Dwight love advice" the "most emotionally rewarding moment on The Office since Michael Scott's goodbye."[18]
Many critics were extremely pleased with the call back to the teapot and Jim's note from "Christmas Party". Adams felt that the scene, before the reveal of the note, was properly executed, and that the note made it even better.[11] Sepinwall called it "a fabulous payoff for longtime fans".[15] Cornet called the sequence "effective".[10] Rick Porter of Zap2it wrote that it was a "nice move" on the part of the writers for "not letting us know what Jim wrote on the card from 'Christmas Party' [because] it has to be pretty epic."[19]
Conversely, most critics gave Andy's plot a negative review. Sepinwall called the entire plot "godawfulness".[15] Campbell referred to it as "a mediocre story that stood in stark contrast to the emotional timbre of the rest of the episode".[17] Cornet called the scenes "just as disconnected from the core of the show as that character has for some time now."[10] Porter wrote that "the show never quite got a handle on what to do with the character this season", and his subplot in "A.A.R.M." was the culmination of this issue.[19]



"The Merger" is the eighth episode of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 36th overall. It was written by consulting producer Brent Forrester and directed by Ken Whittingham. It first aired on November 16, 2006, as a special "super-sized" 40-minute (including commercials) episode on NBC.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton and Stamford branches of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, the two branches are merged. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) have an awkward reunion, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) tries to make his new employees feel welcome, and a rivalry begins between Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms).
The episode featured recurring guest stars Helms, Creed Bratton, Rashida Jones, Wayne Wilderson, Mike Bruner, and Ursula Burton. According to Nielsen Media Research, an estimated 8.63 million viewers watched "The Merger" on its first broadcast. Critical reception to the episode was mainly positive, with many reviewers spotlighting Helms and his character in particular as highlights.
The Scranton and Stamford branches prepare for the upcoming merger. Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) professes excitement over the merger, mostly because of the return of Jim Halpert (John Krasinski). She soon learns throughout the day that Jim has become slightly distant to her and that he has formed a close relationship with Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones), visibly shaking her. Feeling bad with their awkward reunion, Jim catches up to Pam at the end of the day and informs her that he's seeing someone. While Pam assures him that they're still friends, Jim leaves shaken as well.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) proclaims he'll be the No. 2 man in Scranton in six weeks time through "name repetition, personality mirroring and never breaking off a handshake." A rivalry between Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Andy begins over the No. 2 position in the office. At the welcoming party, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) plays a videotape he has created called "Lazy Scranton", which features him and Dwight rhyming over the music of Saturday Night Live's "Lazy Sunday".
In a plan to unite the employees, Michael unintentionally embarrasses obese new employee Tony Gardner (Mike Bruner) by attempting to push him onto a table with the rest of the new employees, making the whole arrangement awry; this causes Tony to quit. However, an angered Michael fires him instead, also unintentionally entitling him to severance pay. When Michael announces that Jim is the No. 2 in the office, Dwight and Andy argue over who is No. 3. They find that they have a common interest: their apparent fondness towards Michael.
"The Merger" was the fourth episode of the series to be directed by Ken Whittingham. It was written by consulting producer Brent Forrester,[1] his first writing credit for The Office.[2] The episode featured guest appearances from recurring actor Creed Bratton as well as from Ed Helms, Rashida Jones, Wayne Wilderson, Mike Bruner, and Ursula Burton, whose characters joined the Scranton branch.[1] In her weekly blog for TV Guide, actress Kate Flannery stated that it "was a really fun episode" to film, as she was able to work with a variety of new actors. She added, "They double the size and they double the comedy... It was like a party all week shooting this episode."[3]
The season three DVD contains a number of deleted scenes, including Kevin and Angela reacting to Jim's return, Karen noting that she and Meredith have the same thermos and being offered alcohol, Andy introducing himself to Kevin, Michael telling Karen and Phyllis that eventually they will "share the same menstrual cycle," Hannah and Meredith fighting over desk space, Andy asking Kevin if he has lost weight, and Michael performing a magic trick in front of the office.[4] The original broadcast contained a small subplot involving Kevin and a new paper shredder from Staples Inc., where Kevin talks about how he is given almost no responsibility at work but is content as long as they let him shred documents.[1][5][6] It was removed from the episode for the DVD release and is not contained in the deleted scenes. It is included on the Amazon Prime Video version of the episode.[4][7]
"The Merger" was first broadcast on November 16, 2006 in the United States on the National Broadcasting Company (NBC). As a special promotion, the network broadcast "super-sized", forty-minute episodes of The Office, 30 Rock, and My Name Is Earl.[8][6] According to Nielsen Media Research, an estimated 8.63 million viewers watched the episode. Among adults aged 18 to 49, it earned 4.2/10 ratings share, meaning that it was seen by 4.2 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of broadcast.[9] The episode reached second place for the night in that demographic,[10] and twenty-fourth for the week among all the major networks.[9]
IGN's Brian Zoromski rated "The Merger" 9 out of 10, an indication of an "amazing" episode. He called the opening sequence "arguably the funniest" scene, and believed "Andy's proven to be an even better source of hilarity than he ever was in the Stamford office."[6] Zoromski was unhappy however with the "outright product placement " with Staples, writing that "the show's quality felt a little compromised. It's one thing to see blatant product placement in a reality show like Survivor or American Idol but when it invades a great scripted comedy… well, it kinda drags the show down to the reality level."[6] Doug Elfman of the Chicago Sun-Times thought the episode was "funnier than it's been in a while," praising Kelly but criticizing the "fat-guy joke."[11] Elfman cited Michael and Andy's new relationship as a positive element.[11] Television Without Pity graded the episode with an A+.[7]
Entertainment Weekly columnist Abby West praised Fischer's "masterful" performance, writing that it "really is nice to see Pam coming into her own... And I love that she didn't inhibit herself when Jim walked in — she just ran right up and hugged him."[12] West also highlighted Carell and Helms, explaining that with the former, "Michael is never completely loathsome — because Steve Carell imbues him with such vulnerability."[12] AOL TV writer Michael Sciannamea also enjoyed Helms' performance, believing that "the competition between Andy and Dwight will surely make for some classic moments."[13] Sciannamea concluded his review, "What makes this show so great is that the supporting players have a chance to shine at the right moments. I thought Stanley's reactions to the whole situation were hysterical, and Creed is just great. He deserves some more airtime."[13]


"Broke" is the twenty-fifth episode of the fifth season of the television series The Office and the 97th overall episode of the series. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on April 23, 2009. In this episode, Michael learns his paper company is broke, and tries to keep this fact a secret when Dunder Mifflin offers to buy out the Michael Scott Paper Company since the company has stolen most of Dunder Mifflin Scranton's core clients.
The episode was written by Charlie Grandy and directed by Steve Carell, marking his directorial debut. "Broke" was the last of a six-episode arc involving Michael quitting to start the Michael Scott Paper Company; it was also the last of six episodes to prominently feature Idris Elba as Dunder Mifflin V.P. Charles Miner. According to Nielsen ratings, it was watched by 7.21 million viewers, and received the season's lowest rating in the 18–49 age group during its regular timeslot to that point in the season.
Michael Scott, Pam Beesly and Ryan Howard make paper deliveries in a used van. This routine, in addition to their duties at the Michael Scott Paper Company, takes such a toll on the group that they look into hiring a delivery person. They are told by their accountant that because of their low prices and fixed-cost pricing model, they not only cannot afford a delivery person, but will be bankrupt in another month. 
At Dunder Mifflin, Charles Miner announces that the Scranton branch, previously the company's most profitable office, has lost ten major clients to Michael's company. Chief Financial Officer David Wallace visits Scranton to see what can be done to stem the losses. In an about-face from his no-nonsense persona, Charles sucks up to David. David calls a meeting with Charles and Jim Halpert, but Charles insists Dwight Schrute be present because he is Charles's right-hand man. During the meeting, Dwight embarrasses Charles with outlandish suggestions.
David decides the cheapest option is for Dunder Mifflin to buy out the Michael Scott Paper Company. Jim has learned the company's financial situation from Pam but feigns uncertainty when asked whether Michael is likely to be interested in a buyout. At David and Charles's orders, Jim brings the idea of a buyout to Michael, reassuring Michael that Dunder Mifflin is unaware of his company's financial situation. Dwight learns from a past client that Michael is begging customers for more money and informs Charles, but Jim manipulates their conversation so that Charles refuses to listen.
After Michael rejects an initial offer of $12,000 to buy the company, David suggests that he is bluffing, saying he knows that his company's prices are too low to be sustainable. Michael rebuts that Dunder Mifflin's best branch is "bleeding" and David could be replaced during an upcoming stockholder meeting. David gives a second offer of $60,000, but Michael rejects this offer at the last second and demands the company give him his old job back and hire Ryan and Pam as salespeople. David is reluctant to hire three people with full benefits, especially given Ryan's disastrous history with the company, and likens it to "a multimillion-dollar buyout". Michael refuses to back down, and David agrees to his demands.
As Charles leaves Scranton, Michael does not allow him any final words, mirroring Charles's earlier treatment of Michael.
"Broke" was written by Charlie Grandy and directed by Steve Carell, who made his directorial debut with the episode.[1] It was the last of a six-episode story arc involving Idris Elba's character Charles Miner,[2] although Elba has indicated the character would return in future episodes: "Mr. Charles doesn't leave the picture. [...] My storyline has come to an end, but there is a good indication that the writers see my character coming back."[3] Elba made an appearance in "Company Picnic", the fifth season finale.[4] Elba said he did not watch "Broke" after it aired because "I'm hypercritical about my work, so I try not to torture myself."[5]
The official website for The Office included three cut scenes from "Broke". In the first 90-second clip, Michael is running late because he overslept, and he instinctively runs into the Dunder Mifflin office by accident instead of his Michael Scott Paper Company office.[6] In the second one-minute clip, Andy is angry that he cannot find his personalized coffee mug with his face on it, and he and the others around the office complain about losing their clients to Michael's new company.[7] In the final 80-second clip, stress drives Ryan to the breaking point and he begins trashing the Michael Scott Paper Company Office, for which he quickly recovers and apologizes.[8]
In its original American broadcast on April 23, 2009, "Broke" was watched by 7.21 million viewers, according to Nielsen ratings. The episode received a 3.7 rating/10 share among viewers aged 18–49, the lowest rating in that age group for the season during its regular timeslot. It received a 4.0 rating/12 share among viewers 18–34.[9]
"He won. Michael Scott won. And he deserved to. Who would have thought when the series started and Michael was so loathsome, that he could have a moment like this that would be so thrilling? Great, great episode."
Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger[1]The episode received highly positive reviews. Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger called "Broke" a "great, great" episode, although he said he wished the Michael Scott Paper Company arc could have lasted longer. Sepinwall praised touches such as the Korean women who were constantly getting into the sales van, and Michael's moment of nervousness on the elevator, and said the ending when Michael came through was particularly satisfying.[1] Will Leitch of New York magazine described "Broke" as "a rousing, exuberant episode that continues one of The Office's best runs in history". Leitch said the negotiations during the latter half of the episode had genuine tension, and that all the storylines of the Michael Scott Paper Company arc were wrapped up perfectly.[10] Travis Fickett of IGN said the episode was strong enough that it could have served as the season finale. He said the episode had many good throw-away moments, like Charles brown-nosing to David and realizing Dwight is eccentric, as well as several clever twists, like Jim's actions in tricking Dwight and helping the Michael Scott Paper Company get bought out.[11] Eric Rezsnyak of the City Newspaper said the episode was a strong finale to the Michael Scott Paper Company arc, which was "probably the best thing to happen to the show in the last two seasons". Rezsnyak praised Michael's impressive actions in the episode and said he was curious to see how Michael's relationship with several of the supporting characters would be recast as a result of this episode.[12]
Margaret Lyons of Entertainment Weekly said, "'Broke' was an incredibly brisk episode that covered a lot of ground, so it worked as a good capstone on the whole Michael-leaving-the-company plot." She also said although the plot arc was a good one, she looked forward to future episodes focusing more on the Dunder Mifflin supporting cast.[13] Rick Porter of Zap2it praised the episode, but expressed concern that the show would grow more stale now that Michael, Pam and Ryan were back to their old jobs at Dunder Mifflin; Porter particularly complimented the new aspects of the Charles Miner character presented in "Broke", including his interaction with David and his exasperation with Dwight.[14] Dan Hopper of Best Week Ever praised the episode and Michael's shrewdness, but also expressed worry that the quality of future episodes would dip now that Dunder Mifflin was back to normal.[15] Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club said of the episode, "Elba's stint on The Office went out on a high note. I'll miss his joyless scold of a middle manager but it's nice to have the gang reunited." Rabin also said the moment when Charles fails to listen when Dwight learns Michael's company is broke "rang a little false", but praised the episode as a whole.[16] Meghan Carlson of BuddyTV said she enjoyed seeing Michael so victorious at the end, and said, "as far as ends getting tied off cleanly, 'Broke' was an inspired episode, full of tension, suspense, and yes, humor."[17]
"Broke" was voted the highest-rated episode out of 26 from the fifth season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 9.17 out of 10.[18] For his work on this episode, Charlie Grandy was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for Best Screenplay – Episodic Comedy.[19] Steve Carell submitted this episode when he was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series, which he lost to Alec Baldwin.


"Goodbye, Toby" is the fourth season hour-long finale of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's seventy-first and seventy-second episodes overall. Written by Paul Lieberstein and Jennifer Celotta, and directed by Paul Feig, the episode first aired in the United States on May 15, 2008, on NBC.
In this episode, Toby Flenderson (Lieberstein) spends his last day at Dunder Mifflin before moving to Costa Rica. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) develops feelings for the new Human Resources Representative Holly Flax (Ryan), who makes her first appearance in this episode. Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) plan to propose to Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) gets ruined after Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) makes a proposal of his own. Elsewhere, Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) is fired as vice president of the company for misleading the shareholders and is sent to prison.
"Goodbye, Toby" introduced the character of Holly Flax, played by Amy Ryan, whose presence would drastically affect the office in the series' fifth and seventh seasons. The episode received largely positive reviews from critics, with many applauding the introduction of Amy Ryan's character, as well as the ending between Jim and Pam. The episode received 4.1 Nielsen rating and was watched by 8.07 million viewers.
Dunder Mifflin's Scranton branch is planning a going-away party for Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) before he leaves for Costa Rica. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is extremely happy that Toby is leaving, but when Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) balks at his unreasonable party demands, Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) accepts the duty of planning the party. She does fantastically, ordering carnival rides and hiring a band.
Michael's hatred of Toby has been transferred to the new human resources representative, Holly Flax (Amy Ryan), and he and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) plan to haze her. When she playfully affects disdain for Toby, Michael takes her seriously, and suddenly falls in love with her. Taking advice from Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), Michael succeeds in warming Holly up with small talk and jokes, and even tempers Toby's exit interview, which he had originally planned to be brutally insulting, because Holly attends. During the interview, Pam helps Toby finally get revenge against Michael by making him give up his favorite watch to Toby after discovering he planned on giving him a rock for a going away gift. Dwight, however, continues the hazing, telling Holly that Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) is mentally challenged, and putting a raccoon in her car. After Michael catches Dwight, who has released a raccoon into Holly's car, he loudly proclaims his high esteem for Holly. Holly gives special attention to Kevin throughout the episode due to her belief that he is mentally challenged, but Kevin believes her attention is a sexual interest in him.
Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) reveals that she is spending the summer studying graphic design at Pratt Institute in New York City, which she got accepted at. Meanwhile, Jim calls Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) about a huge sale that he has recently made. Patronizing as ever, Ryan instructs him to enter the sale on the company's website before abruptly hanging up. Jim takes this as another sign that Ryan is trying to push him out of the company, and leaves Ryan a voice mail proclaiming that he will fight Ryan's attempts to fire him. Shortly afterward, Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) and Jim find a video on YouTube of Ryan being arrested for fraud in the full presence of his peers who are all recording his arrest on their cell phones and interrupt Toby's exit interview to show Michael, Toby, Pam, and Holly. In an interview, Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) reveals that Ryan's website was floundering, so he double-counted office sales as website sales, fraudulently inflating the firm's figures. Although Michael is deeply concerned for Ryan, Jim is pleased and leaves Ryan a second voice mail mockingly telling Ryan to disregard the last because he had his "hands tied".
Michael discovers that Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) has artificially inseminated herself from a sperm bank. She explains that she did this while she was dating Michael, but still wants him to be involved in the pregnancy. He initially is indecisive, but eventually calls and agrees to attend Lamaze class with her.
Jim contributes several hundred dollars to the party-planning fund in order to buy fireworks, later revealing that he has decided to propose to Pam, going back to their "first date". Pam notices the purchase and guesses his intentions; however, at the party, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) ruins the moment by proposing to Angela, who reluctantly accepts. Pam is visibly disappointed that Jim did not propose to her. Michael has security escort Toby out of the office as a parting insult. Dwight is crushed that his ex-girlfriend is marrying someone else. In the last scene of the episode, Phyllis returns to the office, pleased at the success of her party, where she and the camera crew walk in on Angela and Dwight having sex on Angela's desk.
"Goodbye, Toby" was written by Paul Lieberstein and Jennifer Celotta.[1] Lieberstein is also the actor who plays Toby Flenderson.[2] It took Lieberstein and Celotta four or five days to write this episode.[3] Writer Anthony Farrell said that the idea for Dunder Mifflin Infinity to fail was inspired by the days that he was an administrative assistant for Countrywide Home Loans. Farrell recalled watching the company try new online initiatives and seeing them all be unsuccessful.[4] "Goodbye, Toby" was the seventh episode of the series directed by Paul Feig. Feig had previously directed "Office Olympics", "Halloween", "Performance Review", "Email Surveillance", "Survivor Man" and "Dinner Party".[1][3] Feig was tasked with shooting many of the shots that would hide Angela Kinsey's pregnant stomach. To do this, he "looked for places around the office that could conceal her belly".[3] Notably, the ending of the episode was shot in such a way that the audience could see that Dwight and Angela were having sex, but that Kinsey's stomach would not be seen.[3]
The talking head interview wherein Michael compares Holly to a baker came after what the writers call "blitzes", in which all the writers write a talking head on a specific topic, such as "Michael's feelings to Holly". Then they all read all of them out loud and see which one gets the biggest reaction. The YouTube video of Ryan being arrested was set on a private account. After "Goodbye, Toby" aired, the video was released to the public. When writing the story for the episode, the show originally planned on having Dwight put a badger in Holly's car, but after finding out that it was difficult to get a badger, it was switched to a raccoon. The script also called for the raccoon to attack Meredith, but that was decided against for safety reasons. During one of the takes wherein Michael is singing his parody songs, Carell grabbed a guitar and played an Eddie Van Halen guitar solo, but that scene was cut because it did not match Michael's character.[3] After filming, the editors had about 72 minutes of material that they needed to cut down into 40 minutes.[3] The script also included an un-filmed scene in which Jan reveals to Michael that her sperm donor was Andy Roddick.[5]
"Goodbye, Toby" introduced Holly Flax, played by Amy Ryan, who would go on to become Michael's main love interest. In fact, her return to the series in the seventh season was used by the writers as a way to write Steve Carell out of the series after his contract ended.[6] Ryan gained prominence with her role as Beadie Russell on the HBO series The Wire. The writers of The Office, who were fans of the series, then approached Ryan about appearing in their show. Ryan, feeling that a comedy series would "keep [her] a couple steps ahead of people [and] surprise people" agreed.[7] Holly's character was developed by the writers awhile before the episode was scripted. However, once Ryan began acting on set, Lieberstein explained that "we started to see this really silly side that Amy brought to the character, and [we] found almost like a junior Michael in her. And we all saw it and knew what we had."[8] After the filming of "Goodbye, Toby", the writers were hoping that Ryan would return for the fifth season; the crew had not made a deal with her to film more episodes, but Lieberstein noted that "we knew that she would stay around, or we hoped."[8] The episode also guest starred Melora Hardin, and Robert R. Shafer.[1] The members of Darryl's band are the actual members of actor Craig Robinson's band: Chris Rob played bass, Asa Watkins played drums, and David Sampson played guitar.[3]
The Season Four DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Michael comparing Toby to the flu, Holly asking Pam if Kevin just ate before jumping in the bounce castle, Jim not sure whether Ryan is going to downsize him, Jim and Pam browsing for apartments online, the revelation that Kevin's band, Scrantonicity played 30 full Police songs during Phyllis's wedding, Kelly watching Ryan's YouTube arrest video over and over again at Jim's desk, Jim asking about the website, and Troy (Noel Potek)—Ryan's drug dealer—showing up in Scranton.[9] In one deleted scene, in which Toby gives a "farewell" speech that is interrupted by Michael, Toby pleads with the Dunder Mifflin staff to continue his fight to have the office checked for Radon; this scene foreshadows the Season 6 episode "The Chump", in which Toby sets numerous Radon test kits around the office.[5]
Michael offers to make Holly a mixtape, which is a personalized compilation of songs recorded onto any audio format. Michael and Holly trade off comments, speaking as if they were Yoda, the diminutive Jedi master from the Star Wars universe. Michael and Holly shout "Acting!"—the catchphrase from the Jon Lovitz' "Master Thespian" skit from Saturday Night Live. Michael sings a parody of "Goodbye Stranger" by Supertramp entitled "Goodbye, Toby".[10] He also mentions two other parodies that he wrote, "Beers in Heaven" and "Total Eclipse of the Fart"; which are respectively parodies of "Tears in Heaven" by Eric Clapton and "Total Eclipse of the Heart" by Bonnie Tyler.[1] The song "Just My Imagination" by The Temptations can also be heard being performed by the band right before Andy proposes to Angela.[11]
"Goodbye, Toby" first aired on May 15, 2008, on NBC.[12] The episode received 4.1/10 in the 18–49 demographic in the Nielsen ratings. This means that 4.1 percent of all households with an 18- to 49-year-old living in it watched the episode, and ten percent had their televisions tuned to the channel at any point. The episode was watched by 8.07 million viewers.[13]
"Goodbye, Toby" was generally well received by critics. TV Squad's Jay Black said that "The Office is at its best when it's exposing the dramas that take place at every workplace".[14] Black went on to say that Angela's rudeness to Phyllis "was a small thread throughout the show, but a hilarious one".[14] Kelly West of Cinemablend.com wrote that even though the episode did not play-out "the way [she] expected", she was "definitely not complaining".[15] Alan Sepinwall, a writer for The Star-Ledger, was critical of the proposal scenario, saying that "I really, really, really hope the writers aren't going to be foolish enough to try to create real strife in the PB&J (Pam Beesly and Jim) relationship over how long it's going to take Jim to propose."[16] Furthermore, Sepinwall felt that "Goodbye, Toby" might have been, up until that point in the series, the show's "best hour-long 'Office' ever".[16]
Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club noted that "Goodbye, Toby" felt like "the season finaleiest of all season finales", largely because the series "cramm[ed] three or four episodes worth of revelations and big plot twists and turns into one jam-packed, over-stuffed, incidentriffic mega-super-double-extended episode."[17] Rabin was pleased with Ryan's performance, noting that it proved she could play more than an "unfit, coke-crazed, borderline feral Boston shit-kickers", a reference to her Academy Award nominated performance in Gone Baby Gone.[17] Furthermore, he was also complimentary towards the Jim and Pam plot. However, he felt that the episode's "overstuffed" qualities were a weakness, and he ultimately awarded it a "B+".[17] The episode was nominated for an Emmy at the Primetime Emmys in the "Best Direction for a Comedy Series" category in 2008.[18]



"Diwali" is the sixth episode of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 34th overall. It was written by Mindy Kaling, who also acts in the show as Kelly Kapoor, and directed by Miguel Arteta. The episode first aired on November 2, 2006, on NBC, twelve days after the actual Diwali holiday.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) invites the office to a Diwali celebration, where Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) struggles to make a good impression on Kelly's parents and Michael Scott (Steve Carell) considers taking his relationship with Carol Stills (Nancy Carell) to the next step. Meanwhile, at the Stamford branch, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) get drunk while working late, leading Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) to give Jim a ride home.
Kaling and executive producer Greg Daniels came up with the episode idea after Kaling held a Diwali party in 2005 for series staff. She undertook research about Indian culture and the resulting episode was substituted in place of one that would have been Halloween-themed. The episode was directed by Miguel Arteta. According to Nielsen Media Research, an estimated 8.8 million viewers tuned in; it earned a 4.2/10 rating among adults aged 18 to 49, placing first in this demographic group. Critical reception to the episode was largely positive, with many praising Kaling's writing, Carell's performance, and other comedic elements. As a result of the episode, The Office became the first American comedy series to depict the holiday, and several commentators have credited it with helping introduce Indian customs to American audiences.
Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) invites the entire office staff to a celebration of Diwali, the Hindu Festival of Lights, which Michael Scott (Steve Carell) mistakenly believes to be an Indian version of Halloween. Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) fails to make a favorable impression on Kelly's parents, who in turn try to set up Kelly with a young doctor. Initially reluctant to attend the festival, Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) gives in and ends up enjoying herself. Inspired by a conversation with Kelly's parents about Hindu marriage customs, Michael publicly proposes to Carol (Nancy Carell). Uncomfortable, Carol declines his offer and leaves the room. She later explains that this is only their ninth date, and drives home, leaving Michael to find a ride.
Meanwhile, in Stamford, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) decides to bike to work. Working late, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones), and Jim turn a late night of paperwork into an excuse to drink, although Karen, unbeknownst to Jim and Andy, pours her shots into her wastebasket.  Pam sends a text message to Jim, who does not answer because he is passed out on his desk. At the end of the evening, Michael mistakenly thinks that he and Pam have a connection, and is rejected when he tries to kiss her. She gives him a ride home on the condition that he sit in the back seat. Jim tries to bicycle home but is too drunk, crashing after leaving the office, and an amused Karen gives Jim a ride.
"Diwali" was written by Mindy Kaling and directed by Miguel Arteta. While the episode is partly set at West Scranton High School,[1] filming actually took place at Grant High School in Los Angeles, the same building where Freaks and Geeks was shot. That series' co-creator, Paul Feig, has directed several episodes of The Office, including "Email Surveillance".[2]
Kaling used her own Indian cultural background as inspiration when writing the episode, which portrays the Indian festival of Diwali. She and her friend, My Name Is Earl writer Vali Chandrasekaran, had held a Diwali party in 2005 for the cast of their two shows. According to Kaling, NBC was "so excited. They were like, 'What the hell is this holiday? I've never heard of it'."[3] The following year, while discussing the possible creation of a Halloween episode, she and executive producer Greg Daniels agreed to instead create one that was Diwali-themed, as the two holidays fall near each other.[4]
When it came time to write the episode however, Kaling had to perform a Google search, as she had forgotten many details. She explained, "I was a little embarrassed with how little I knew about it. I'm Hindu, but I'm not really a practicing Hindu, so I had to do a lot of research."[5] Kaling was pleased to learn more about her culture, at first being concerned that Daniels "and people I work with were a little antsy about assigning the Hindu writer the Indian episode. I didn't want to feel like they pigeonholed me, but I felt like I'd done enough episodes that it was okay."[5] She found that making the episode "was kind of the perfect meeting of being the child of immigrants and writing for a comedy show".[6] The series writers have since joked that they should do a Diwali-themed episode every year in the same vein as the Christmas specials.[6]
When creating the story, Kaling knew that "a lot of stuff has to happen" in the midst of the festival, including Michael and Carol's relationship becoming "very roller-coastery". As with other series storylines, this development was decided upon before Kaling began writing the episode. She stated, "But it was always sort of built in that the peak of 'Diwali' would be this incredibly romantic overture [and its uncomfortable aftermath]."[4] Kaling was pleased that much of "Diwali" took place at Stamford, especially as she was able to explore the contrasts between the two offices.[5] She also liked that the episode contained "romance, people getting dressed up in costumes, lots of food, smooching and making out ... and little girls making fun of B.J. Novak".[5]
In her weekly blog for TV Guide, actress Kate Flannery wrote that "Mindy shares that B.J. Novak talent of being able to write an incredibly funny episode ("Hot Girl," "The Injury") and be in it. Diwali is the Indian festival of lights. So this week Dunder-Mifflin gets a spicy taste of Indian culture in a hurry. Michael decides the office needs an outing to the local high school for the annual Indian Diwali party."[2]
Kaling cast her own mother and father, a doctor and an architect respectively, as the parents of her character.[2][7] Kaling was proud of their acting, though she admitted that their presence on set was at first "mortifying". She commented, "Of course I sort of lapsed back into that pre-teen attitude of every single thing my parents do embarrasses me. But they were great about it. They were such pros – they had all these scenes with Steve Carell and they were completely unafraid. They got along effortlessly."[5] Kaling injected elements of Romeo and Juliet and Pride and Prejudice into her character's relationship with Ryan, with her parents attempting to persuade her to date an Indian doctor. She remarked, "Kelly's family has, like, nine daughters, and if only they could marry them off it would be wonderful. But Kelly is the oldest and most idiotic of them all."[4]
Though he wanted to avoid becoming an actor, Chandrasekaran was cast by Kaling as the "suitable boy" Kelly's parents want her to marry. Chandrasekaran later stated, "I asked Mindy to write as few lines as possible. Acting is not a skill that I have particularly a lot of."[8] Other guest stars included Creed Bratton as Creed Bratton, Charles Esten as Josh Porter, Ed Helms as Andy Bernard, and Rashida Jones as Karen Filippelli.[1] Nancy Carell, Steve Carell's wife, reprised her role as Carol Stills, the girlfriend of his character.[5]
The third season DVD contained a number of deleted scenes, including Angela complaining about attending the Diwali party, Michael hoping that the office does not embarrass themselves, Kelly explaining that Diwali is an "Indian Halloween" to Michael, an initially angry Jan being supportive about the office attending the festival, Michael explaining to the office that Ben Kingsley liberated India and then became an actor, Carol meeting Ryan and Dwight, and Angela leaving the party with Dwight.[9]
"Diwali" first aired on November 2, 2006, in the United States on NBC during November sweeps week.[10][11] According to Nielsen Media Research, an estimated 8.8 million viewers watched the episode, and it earned a 4.2/10 ratings share among adults aged 18 to 49. In other words, it was seen by 4.2 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 10 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This was the series' highest rating since the season premiere. The episode also ranked first in its timeslot among both adults and men aged 18 to 34.[12]
"Diwali" received generally positive reviews from television critics. Entertainment Weekly columnist Abby West thought the episode "hit all the show's major buttons," focusing on Michael while also furthering the Jim/Karen and Pam/Roy storylines as well as showcasing the other characters.[11] West added that "Kaling gets what makes the show work, and she pulled it together while displaying great timing."[11] AOL TV's Michael Sciannamea considered the episode "a classic," though he thought that "the Stamford scenes don't seem to add much to the story other than the burgeoning flirtation between Jim and Karen."[13] Sciannamea concluded that it was "a terrific episode. The scenes inside the hall were hysterical, especially the dancing."[13]
Brian Zoromski of IGN rated "Diwali" 9.3 out of 10, an indication of an "amazing" episode. He wrote that "Michael completely stole the episode with a truly dizzying number of uncomfortable situations. Daily Show vet Steve Carell has become the king of the uncomfortable moment, throwing himself completely into situations viewers know won't end well."[14] Like West, Zoromski also appreciated the other characters' moments, such as Angela's "xenophobic" comments during the festivities.[14] Television Without Pity gave the episode an A grade.[15]
As a result of this episode, The Office became the first American comedy series to depict the Diwali holiday.[5] Lauren Markoe of The Huffington Post has credited the episode with helping to introduce Diwali to the American public, writing that it "represents perhaps the brightest spotlight ever shone on Diwali in the United States."[16] In their 2012 book Diversity in U.S. Mass Media, Catherine A. Luther, Carolyn Ringer Lepre, and Naeemah Clark noted that "Diwali" "introduces the audience to Indian dancing and singing, a tradition rarely seen on television."[17]

"New Leads" is the twentieth episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 120th episode overall. It was written and directed by Brent Forrester.
In this episode, Sabre has spent a large amount of money for some sales leads, due to their new "sales is king" policy. Frustrated with his sales staff's cocky attitudes, Michael is reluctant to hand out the new leads he has received, and instead hands them out to the non-sales staff, who are also frustrated with their coworkers' behavior, and the leads are hidden.
The sales staff (Jim Halpert, Dwight Schrute, Phyllis Vance, Andy Bernard and Stanley Hudson) let Sabre's new "sales is king" policy get to their heads, frustrating Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and the rest of the non-sales staff. The sales staff are expected to receive new leads from the corporate office and when they arrive, Michael refuses to give them to the sales staff due to their arrogant and disrespectful behavior (particularly Phyllis ordering Michael to "hand them over, numb-nuts"), which earns him the respect of the non-sales staff. After talking on the phone with Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) about their attitude, Michael is ordered to hand out the leads and cheerfully does just that—to the non-sales staff: Creed Bratton, Meredith Palmer, Angela Martin, Kevin Malone, Ryan Howard, Kelly Kapoor, Oscar Martinez, and Erin Hannon. They all hide them throughout the office, and Jim is given a list of clues as to where to find them and calls Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer), who is at home on maternity leave, to try and figure them out. Erin plays the warmer-colder game with Andy, who thinks she is trying to have him touch her chest, only to find leads under the keyboard. Angela forces Phyllis to do unnecessary paperwork, which she will later destroy. Stanley wins leads from Ryan and Kelly by pretending to agree with various points they're making during an argument.
When Dwight returns from a sales call, he is given a clue that leads him to Kevin, who tells him that some of the leads are in the trash after Dwight starts strangling him. However, the trash is empty, so Dwight checks the dumpster, which is also empty. Michael sees that the garbage truck had emptied the dumpster already, so he and Dwight go to the dump to find them.
Jim's urging gets the sales staff to acknowledge their rude behavior, and they agree on a plan to offer the non-sales staff some pastries and 2% of their commissions. However, before mentioning their commissions offer, the rest of the staff are so happy with the snacks that they end their dispute with the sales force, who decide to cap the apology right there. At the dump trying to find the leads, Michael calls Dwight out on his bad attitude and Dwight complains that he "hitched my wagon to a horse with no legs" by accepting Michael's job offer years ago instead of going to Home Depot, and the two start throwing trash at each other until they get exhausted. They make amends and return to the office, no longer concerned about the lost leads but rather the cool beanbag chair they found.
At the end of the episode, Andy and Erin try to look for the leads at the dump after work. Andy gets cold so Erin gives him her jacket. He tells her that she is the nicest person he has ever met and they share a first kiss amidst the mountains of trash.
In its original American broadcast, "New Leads" was watched by 7.63 million viewers, with a 3.6 rating and a 10 share in the 18–49 demographic.[1]

"St. Patrick's Day" is the nineteenth episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office and the show's 119th episode overall. It was written by Jonathan Hughes and directed by Randall Einhorn.
In this episode, Jo Bennett and Michael clash during Jo's last day at the Scranton branch, when Jo makes the whole office stay late at work, which angers the branch especially since it is St. Patrick's Day. Meanwhile, Dwight has converted his, Jim's, and Pam's desks into one "megadesk", which frustrates Jim when he returns from paternity leave. Meanwhile, Andy and Erin's first date is interrupted when Erin goes home sick, so Andy pretends to be sick as well to go to her house.
Jo Bennett (Kathy Bates) is spending her last day at the Scranton office, and Michael Scott (Steve Carell) thinks he has earned her favor after some small talk. However, when Jo opens up the floor to suggestions on how to improve business, Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) offers an idea on how to improve shipping for both paper and printers. As a result, Jo allows Darryl to take Jim's old office. Michael tries once again to earn Jo's favor with some small talk and by scheduling a vacation to her home state of Florida, but Jo berates him for wasting time, and Michael cancels his flights. The rest of the office is unhappy when Jo forces them to stay late, as she has an unpredictable work schedule. Michael is particularly upset, as he made plans to meet Todd Packer (David Koechner) at a bar for St. Patrick's Day. The employees try to make multiple breaks for it, but fail. Michael is finally direct with Jo, and tells her he's allowing his employees to leave. She complies, showing the first hint of respect for Michael. Michael and Todd Packer meet the rest of the employees at the bar.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) and Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) are set to have their first date. However, Erin is sick and Jo sends her home. Andy, wanting to see Erin, feigns being sick so he can leave too. He visits Erin at home, and they watch TV together. However, their time is interrupted when he meets her foster brother (Sean Davis), who makes Andy sit on the chair while he sits next to Erin on the couch. Erin and her foster brother engage in physically intimate behavior, so Andy begins to suspect that the foster siblings are romantically involved. When he prepares to leave, however, Erin gives Andy a lingering kiss on the cheek.
While Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) are gone on parental leave, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) arranges Jim's and Pam's desks with his into one "Megadesk". When he returns from leave, Jim puts the desks back properly, but Dwight continually reforms his "Megadesk" whenever Jim is not around. In a bid to preserve "Megadesk", he tells Jim about how he and his cousin Mose never saw their fathers when they were young. He then plays an obnoxious rendition of "Cat's in the Cradle" on the computer while Jim is on a sales call. Jim (surprised that Dwight's cheap manipulations are working) wishes he was at home with his newborn daughter.
Dwight attempts to get out of work by telling Jo he has a meeting with a client, but Jim beats him to it. This allows Jim to leave, forcing Dwight to go back to his desk. At the end of the episode, Dwight comes in to work the next day to find that Jim had rearranged the desks into a "Quad-Desk"; one desk on top of the other two desks, with a little space in between the two bottom desks where he put Dwight's computer, phone and nameplate.
In its original American broadcast, "St. Patrick's Day" was watched by 7.51 million viewers, with a 3.8 rating and an 11 share in the 18–49 demographic.[1]


"Cocktails" is the eighteenth episode of the third season of the American version of The Office and the show's forty-sixth episode overall. It was written by actor Paul Lieberstein and directed by Lost series creator J. J. Abrams. NBC hired Abrams and Joss Whedon to each direct an episode during their February sweeps week. Michael Patrick McGill, Dan Cole, Owen Daniels, and Jean Villepique guest starred.
In the episode, Michael, Dwight, Jim and Karen attend a cocktail party at CFO David Wallace's house. While there, Michael and Jan make their relationship public, Karen makes Jim uncomfortable by pointing out all of her ex-boyfriends in attendance, and Dwight inspects the home. Meanwhile, the rest of the office goes to a bar and Pam tries to be more honest with Roy.
The first American broadcast of "Cocktails" occurred on February 22, 2007, to an estimated 8.3 million viewers. The episode was positively received by television critics, with Kevin Fitzpatrick of UGO Networks calling it one of the best of the series.
Jan (Melora Hardin), Michael (Steve Carell), Dwight (Rainn Wilson), Jim (John Krasinski), and Karen (Rashida Jones) attend a cocktail party hosted by Dunder-Mifflin's CFO David Wallace (Andy Buckley). Jan and Michael bring along signed documents disclosing their relationship. With the branch managers away, the remainder of the office goes to happy hour at Poor Richard's Pub. Pam (Jenna Fischer) asks that Roy (David Denman), as her boyfriend, attend as well. Roy shows up along with his brother, Kenny.
At the party, Karen plays a joke on Jim by identifying many people at the party as ex-boyfriends. Dwight takes it upon himself to give the house a thorough inspection, and spends the night critiquing the layout and materials. Towards the end of the evening, David invites Jim to play basketball in the backyard.
Michael takes relish in being able to freely proclaim his relationship with Jan to his bosses, making Jan uncomfortable. She eventually pulls him aside and tries to get him to have sex with her in the bathroom. Michael refuses and she becomes angry. As they drive home together, Jan hypothesizes that she only enjoyed being with Michael because their relationship was undisclosed and therefore unethical, and that disclosing it was a mistake. Michael is hurt and upset at this, and Jan takes back her comments to keep him from crying.
At Poor Richard's, Pam tells Roy she wants a fresh start in their relationship and tells him about the "Casino Night" kiss with Jim. Roy reacts by yelling at her and throwing his glass at the bar mirror. Furious, Pam calls their relationship "over" and walks out. Roy and Kenny begin destroying the bar.  Kenny uses the money he made from selling his jet skis to pay off the bar for damages, and Roy swears vengeance against Jim.
"Cocktails" was written by Paul Lieberstein, who plays Human Resources representative Toby Flenderson on the series.[1] Lost series creator J. J. Abrams was hired on as episode director,[2] his first such credit for the series. Abrams disliked the American series when it first premiered, due to his love for the original British series. The director explained, "I resented it before I saw it, because I thought, 'well, how are you going to do what Ricky and Steve did. In fact, the first season I didn't get into it at all. In the second season, they really found their voice. And that's despite having to make 22 episodes, which is twice the length of what the BBC show did. And I thought that the show became brilliant. I was really impressed by how it worked."[3]
Abrams had been rumored as director since December 2006, and NBC confirmed this the following month. He and Buffy the Vampire Slayer creator Joss Whedon were both hired to direct an episode during February sweeps week.[4][5] Abrams had known cast member Kate Flannery years before, when he used to write in a restaurant where Flannery worked as a waitress. The two were reunited on The Office set, where he stated that he was pleased with her success.[6]
Jenna Fischer found her character's break-up scene with Roy "really dark," as she is friends with David Denman outside of the show. She explained, "To see him turn like that, for me it was even more shocking because I know him as a big teddy bear. He played it so well and I think that cliffhanger of 'I'm gonna kill Jim Halpert' is one of the best last lines of our episodes ever."[7] "Cocktails" included recurring guest star Michael Patrick McGill as Kenny Anderson, who called working on The Office "a blast."[8] Other guest stars included Dan Cole as Dan Gore, Owen Daniels as the Wallaces' son, and Jean Villepique as Rachel Wallace.[9]
The season three DVD contains a number of deleted scenes. Notable cut scenes included Stanley reacting violently when he sees Ryan talking to his daughter Melissa; Pam and Roy talking about her Dunder Mifflin painting, the talking head interview with Jan over relationships, Dwight's upstairs house inspection, and his conversation with the CFO's son; and Michael showing off his framed "love contract".[10]
"Cocktails" first aired in the United States on February 22, 2007.[11] An estimated 8.3 million viewers tuned in to the episode,[12] a drop of less than 10 percent from the previous week.[13] Among adults aged 18–49, The Office earned a 4.2/10 ratings share, an increase of seventeen percent from its lead-in.[12]
Television critics tended to view "Cocktails" positively. Kevin Fitzpatrick of UGO Networks praised the episode's writing and directing, explaining that "A lot of the credit goes to Paul Lieberstein for his ruthlessly funny writing, but ol' J.J. really knows how to run with the material and make awkward situations just that much more painful with his direction, one of the best episodes of the series."[1] Buddy TV writer Oscar Dahl noted that "besides a couple of crafty camera moves, his work was mostly invisible, which is exactly what you want from a director on The Office."[2] IGN's Brian Zoromski appreciated the spotlight on female characters Jan, Pam, and Karen, and thought there were "quite a few great little moments this episode," including "a great Creed moment as he revealed he runs a fake ID company out of his car".[14] Entertainment Weekly columnist Abby West enjoyed Karen conning Jim at the party, called Rashida Jones' performance "brilliantly played"; West also liked Pam's newfound confidence, but believed she was "dumb" for telling Roy of her kiss with Jim.[15]


"Gossip" is the sixth season premiere of the American comedy television series The Office and the 101st overall episode of the series. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on September 17, 2009. The episode was written and directed by Paul Lieberstein. It features Max Carver, Kelii Miyata and Elvy Yost in guest appearances as Dunder Mifflin's summer interns.
In the episode, Michael spreads a rumor about Stanley having an affair, then spreads a series of false rumors to try to convince everyone the original rumor was not true. The rumors cause Andy to question his sexuality, and Pam and Jim to debate whether or not to tell the office that Pam is pregnant.
"Gossip" confirmed the fact that protagonist Pam was pregnant, which was strongly hinted in the fifth season finale, "Company Picnic". "Gossip" was the first episode to feature Ellie Kemper as a regular cast member, and the first Office episode since Ed Helms achieved box office success with the summer comedy film, The Hangover. "Gossip" received generally positive reviews, with several commentators particularly praising the subplot in which Andy questions whether the rumor about him being gay might actually be true. According to Nielsen ratings, the episode was watched by 8.21 million viewers. Although The Office had the highest 9 p.m. rating among viewers aged between 18 and 49, the overall episode constituted an 18 percent drop in viewership compared to the fifth-season premiere, "Weight Loss". "Gossip" was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for best episodic comedy.
As the three summer interns prepare to depart, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) hears from various members of the office that two of the interns might be dating, and feels upset that he was left out of the gossip. He talks about the situation with the third intern, and learns that the interns had recently gone out to a young people's club, where they saw Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker) dancing with a woman, presumably his wife Teri. Michael, wanting to start some gossip of his own, forms the conclusion that Stanley was out because he was having a mid-life crisis and shares it with the office, but Phyllis Vance (Phyllis Smith) claims Stanley does not like crowds and that Teri is out of town. When Michael confronts the interns about this, they insist they saw Stanley there "making out" with a woman. Now realizing that Stanley is possibly having an affair and he is the first person to learn of it, Michael starts telling the employees. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) urges Michael to stop spreading a rumor that he does not know for certain to be true. When Stanley is leaving, Michael heads to the parking lot to discuss the rumor with him. Stanley initially denies it, but when Michael mentions that he was spotted in the club by the interns, he reveals that since Teri has been out of town constantly, he has been seeking company from a nurse named Cynthia, whom he met in rehab. Stanley urges Michael not to say anything since he is breaking it off with Cynthia, and Michael agrees, despite having already told the entire office.
Hoping to obscure the truth about Stanley's affair, Michael starts spreading a variety of false rumors, among them that there is another person physically inside Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), that Kelly (Mindy Kaling) is anorexic, that Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) has asthma, that Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) is still a virgin (despite him having a daughter), that Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) is pregnant (unaware it is true), and that Andy (Ed Helms) is gay. When Andy hears about this, he realizes that many people have thought this about him in the past and gets increasingly insecure as he begins to question his sexual orientation. Jim and Pam, who were trying to keep Pam's pregnancy a secret, think they have been found out. The couple then notice that there have been various absurd rumors about office employees being spread. When Jim brings it to everyone's attention, they trace one particular rumor back to Michael, who then tries to slip out of the office.
The employees pursue Michael, and he confesses that he created the rumors to conceal the one true rumor. Andy fears that it might be the one about him. The employees urge Michael to tell them which one is true, but just as Michael is about to give in, Jim announces that Pam is actually pregnant to save Stanley. Michael denies it, but Pam shows her baby's ultrasound picture to prove it. Later, while Michael discusses her pregnancy with Jim and Pam in his office, Stanley's wife Teri returns Michael's call from earlier. He picks up the phone with the intention of making an excuse for his earlier call so as to not tip her off, but he accidentally calls her Cynthia twice before Jim hangs up the phone for him. Teri had already been suspicious of Stanley and Cynthia, so Michael calling her Cynthia is enough for her to figure out what is going on. Michael, feeling guilty, watches from his office window as Stanley attacks Michael's car with a tire iron in a fit of rage. At the end of the episode, the three interns discuss what they have learned at Dunder Mifflin, which they reveal was essentially nothing.
"Gossip" was written and directed by Paul Lieberstein, a producer and screenwriter for the series who also plays Toby. The episode confirmed the fact that Pam was pregnant, which was strongly hinted in the fifth season finale, "Company Picnic".[1] "Gossip" was the first episode to feature Ellie Kemper as a full cast member; she had guest starred in several episodes at the end of the fifth season as receptionist Erin Hannon.[2] It was also the first episode of The Office to air since the release of the Ed Helms comedy film The Hangover.[2][3] The film was a surprise box office success, grossing more than twice the amount of The 40-Year Old Virgin, which established Steve Carell as a comedy movie star.[3][4][5] Commentators were split on what the success would mean for The Office, with some believing it would allow the show's writers to better realize his potential and write better material for Helms,[2][3] and others expressing concern Helms would not be as dedicated to the Andy Bernard role.[6]
The official website for The Office included three cut scenes from "Gossip" within a week of its original release. In the first 40-second clip, Dwight has the interns pass hand-written notes to officemates, while Ryan orders them to search thousands of pennies for rare coins.[7] In the second clip, which is one minute and 10 seconds, Dwight has the interns pick up their own cake, but chastises them for not picking up candles.[8] In the final two-minute clip, Dwight makes the interns memorize trivial bits of information, then tells them what he believes are inspirational stories.[9]
During the episode's cold open, Michael, Dwight, and Andy run throughout the office climbing on desks, jumping off chairs and pushing themselves off objects. The actions are their attempts to engage in parkour, the art of moving from point A to point B as creatively as possible, which Jim describes as "the Internet sensation of 2004".[6] Jim points out parkour was used in a chase scene in the 2006 James Bond movie Casino Royale.[10]
Pam says the Dunder Mifflin office previously did not have interns for years because Michael kept making jokes about Monica Lewinsky, an intern at the White House who had a sexual relationship with President Bill Clinton in 1995 and 1996.[2] Michael discusses the 1960 movie  Spartacus, which he calls a great "whodunit" due to the ending, in which dozens of people claim to be the real Spartacus in order to protect the actual title character.[10]
While trying to figure out whether he is gay, Andy says he would reluctantly accept a kiss from movie star Brad Pitt.[2] The three summer interns say Michael constantly says they look like actors Jet Li, Julia Stiles and Alan Thicke.[3] Michael spreads a rumor that Oscar is the voice of the Taco Bell dog, a chihuahua used as an advertising character in the 1990s and 2000s for the restaurant chain Taco Bell.[2] Michael also claims Angela is dating a billionaire who manages a Quiznos, a fast-food submarine sandwich restaurant.[11] Michael starts a rumor that someone in the office is a J.Crew model, originally referring to himself, although everyone believes it to be Jim. J.Crew is an American clothing and accessories retailer.[12]
In its original American broadcast on September 17, 2009, "Gossip" was seen by 8.21 million viewers, according to Nielsen ratings. The viewership was an 18 percent drop compared to the fifth-season premiere, "Weight Loss".[13] "Gossip" received a 4.0 rating among viewers aged between 18 and 49.[13] It was the highest rating of that age group in the 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. slot, competing with CBS' CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, Fox's Fringe, ABC's Grey's Anatomy (a rerun) and The CW's Supernatural.[14] However, the rating was a drop compared to a 4.9 rating among ages 18 to 49 for "Weight Loss". "Gossip" served as the lead-in for the series premiere of NBC's Community, which held on to 93 percent of The Office's 18 to 49 audience to premiere with a 3.7 rating, garnering 7.68 million viewers.[13] The episode was viewed by 931,000 households during its  Canadian premiere on September 17, 2009, making it the 28th highest viewed program of that week.[15]
Some of the very best episodes of The Office play out like slow, agonizing and very entertaining train wrecks, with Michael Scott as the conductor obliviously leading his employees on a crash course towards embarrassment, humiliation and awkwardness. "Gossip" is definitely one of those episodes.
Dan Phillips, IGN[11]"Gossip" received generally positive reviews. Several commentators particularly praised the comedic performance of Ed Helms,[3][11][16][17][18] as well as the line by Kevin, "Who's been saying that there's another person inside of me working me with controls?"[16][17] Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger called the episode "not an instant classic, but a solid start to the season". Sepinwall said it started slowly, but gradually built to a "very funny, and kinda sweet climax in the conference room".[10] New York magazine writer Will Leitch said "Gossip" appeared to be a return to a more normal Office atmosphere, compared to the surprises and twists of the fifth season.[3] Rick Ingebritson of The Palm Beach Post said he was concerned the season premiere would not be good because Steve Carell, John Krasinski and Ed Helms would be too distracted with their growing film careers. But, he said, "Thankfully, if Thursday's premiere was any indication, it appears that the Dunder Mifflin crew still has a lot to offer."[6] Entertainment Weekly writer Margaret Lyons said, "'Gossip' had some terrific moments, but I don't know that I'd put it on my all-time great episodes list." She specifically praised the performances of Brian Baumgartner and Jenna Fischer.[2]
Chicago Tribune television columnist Maureen Ryan called "Gossip" a "solidly entertaining premiere", specifically complimenting the Ed Helms subplot and the various office rumors.[16] Hopper of Best Week Ever praised the episode's final scene, in which Michael unsuccessfully tries to lie his way through a phone call with Stanley's wife. Dan Hopper said of the episode, "Season six is off to an appropriately awkward start."[17] Philadelphia Examiner writer Matt Carter gave the episode an 8.9 out of 10 score. Carter said the episode was "proof that there is still a ton of life left in these characters", and particularly enjoyed the way Jim and Pam stood up for Stanley by revealing the truth about Pam's pregnancy.[18] Dan Phillips of IGN said the episode included several "amusing asides and laugh-out-loud moments", particularly from supporting characters Creed, Kevin and Andy. He also praises the episode's "day in the life" formula, which he said has been successful in other previous Office episodes.[11] Tara Tanzos of The Express-Times said the episode lived up to the series' standards, particularly praising the Ed Helms subplot and the parkour cold open.[1]
For his work on this episode, Paul Lieberstein was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for Best Screenplay – Episodic Comedy,[19] but lost to the pilot episode of Modern Family and the 30 Rock episode "Apollo, Apollo", which split the prize.[20]


"Dwight K. Schrute, (Acting) Manager" is the twenty-fourth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's 150th episode overall. The episode was written by Justin Spitzer and directed by Troy Miller. It originally aired in the United States on May 12, 2011 on NBC. The episode also features guest appearances from Kathy Bates, Cody Horn and Michael Schur.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Dwight (Rainn Wilson) becomes the interim regional manager, instituting a typically heavy-handed management style. Meanwhile, Gabe (Zach Woods) tries to win back Erin (Ellie Kemper), but Andy (Ed Helms) gets in his way.
The episode received positive reviews from critics, with many commenting that it proved the series could survive without the lead actor, Steve Carell. According to Nielsen Media Research, "Dwight K. Schrute, (Acting) Manager" drew an estimated 6.45 million viewers and earned a 3.3 rating/8% share among those aged 18–49, making it the second-lowest-rated episode of the season after "Todd Packer".
When Deangelo Vickers (Will Ferrell) ends up in a coma on life support, Jo Bennett (Kathy Bates) makes Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) the interim regional manager before they find a proper replacement, much to Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) chagrin, as the office had actually functioned very smoothly during the manager hiatus. As Jim notes, everyone showed up, worked for the day with reasonable breaks, and were highly productive. Once appointed, Dwight establishes a strict management style in stark contrast to their previously relaxed style, from making the employees recite the Pledge of Allegiance in the morning, setting up firewalls, creating long passwords to use the office's various machines, and installing antique punch clocks. He also renovates his office with odd decorations, such as a marble desk and a piranha tank.
Jim, who had turned down the temporary manager position believing that they should not be assigned one at all, is especially unhappy with the changes, and begins pranking Dwight by suggesting that he is leading an uprising called "The Fist." To impress Jo, Dwight buys a gun (the same kind Jo collects), though he is more excited when he receives a holster as a gift from a relative, and uses the gun to accessorize. Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) insists that he put it away, but Dwight accidentally fires the gun right by Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), causing him temporary hearing loss. Dwight attempts to bribe the office workers into silence with various favors, and Jim insists that Dwight do outlandish things (such as doing jazz hands and saying "Shagedelic, baby") at certain promptings.
Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) continues with his attempts to win back Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper). He invites Andy to go to the conference room to speak in private. Gabe tearfully breaks down, and forces Andy to promise that he will not date Erin again. Gabe confronts Andy with the promise after he sees the two hanging out together, but Andy stands up for himself and embarrasses Gabe by describing Gabe's crying fit to Erin. When asked whether he wants to date Erin, he vaguely dodges the question.
When Jo comes to visit the branch, Dwight admits to the gun incident. He attempts to divert the blame to his employees, saying that blackmail is a bigger crime than firing a gun accidentally, but Jo takes the position away from him, telling him that the gun incident is far worse. Jo later instates Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton), who has the most seniority in the office, as acting manager until a committee composed of Jim, Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein), and Gabe find a replacement. While Jim tells Dwight that Jo did the right thing, he also compliments Dwight, noting that the office got every single company order out on time, and Dwight slightly lights up.
"Dwight K. Schrute, (Acting) Manager" was the ninth episode of the series written by supervising producer Justin Spitzer, and the first directed by Troy Miller.[1] The original working title for this episode was "Interim Manager" but was considered too bland by Office writer Mindy Kaling. While writing the episode, Spitzer originally titled it "Dwight K. Schrute", but decided the title was not descriptive enough, so he renamed it "Dwight K. Schrute, Interim Manager", before realizing that Acting Manager fits Dwight's role better and changed it to "Dwight K. Schrute, Acting Manager". Spitzer then decided that Dwight would downplay the acting part of the position and renamed the episode to its current title "Dwight K. Schrute, (Acting) Manager".[2]
The episode features the return of Kathy Bates as Jo Bennett.[1] This is her first on-screen appearance since "Nepotism".[3] The long absence is due to her starring in the other NBC series, Harry's Law.[4] The episode also marks the second appearance of Cody Horn as Jordan Garfield, Deangelo's executive assistant, and the first of three new roles since Carell's departure. The role was originally said to be recurring at first with a chance of her becoming a series regular in the eighth season.[5] She eventually did not return for the eighth season.[6] The episode also features a voice guest appearance from former producer and writer for The Office Michael Schur as Mose Schrute, his first appearance on the show since "Counseling" due to his being the show runner for the other NBC sitcom, Parks and Recreation.[7]
The official website for The Office included four cut scenes from "Dwight K. Schrute, (Acting) Manager" within a week of the episode's release. In the first, 66-second clip, Dwight shows the documentary crew his new office apparel including his desk modeled after Uday Hussein's desk.[8] In the second, 77-second clip, Jim pranks Dwight by putting fake results from Jordan's surveillance of the office. Later in her talking head, it is hinted that Jordan has a crush on Jim.[9] In the third, 86-second clip, the staff realize they are stuck with Dwight as their boss as Phyllis attempts to remember a movie.[10] In the fourth, 49-second clip,  Gabe attempts to get Erin back by using her love of Pixar films, but ultimately fails.[11]
In its original American broadcast on May 13, 2011, "Dwight K. Schrute, (Acting) Manager" was viewed by an estimated 6.45 million viewers and received a 3.3 rating/9% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[12] This means that it was seen by 3.3% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This marked a nine percent drop in the ratings from the previous episode making it the second-lowest-rated episode of the season in the 18–49 demographic, after "Todd Packer".[12] "Dwight K Schrute, (Acting) Manager" was the sixth most-watched scripted show for the week of broadcast among adults aged 18–49.[13]
..."The Office" did just fine without Carell, or Will Ferrell, or any of the big names who are going to pass through in the finale. This was an episode of "The Office" filled only with familiar characters (even Jo's been around long enough that she counts), and a pretty good one, at that. I said last week that I didn't really want to start judging the post-Carell version of the show until Deangelo was gone. Well, he's gone, and the first real impression of the show after Michael was a strong one.
Alan Sepinwall, HitFix[14]"Dwight K. Schrute, (Acting) Manager" received positive reviews from critics. IGN reviewer Cindy White commented: "This episode proved that the show can be funny without him (Steve Carell)". She also praised Rainn Wilson and John Krasinski's performance in the episode calling it "one of my favorite dynamics on the show".[15] However, she criticized the Andy-Gabe-Erin love triangle storyline, commenting: "It's only been made worse by the way they've turned Gabe from meek, bumbling burocrat [sic] into unhinged stalker guy."[15] She ultimately gave the episode an 8.0/10.[15] Alan Sepinwall of HitFix called the episode "fun" and a "drastic improvement from 'The Inner Circle'". He mainly praised the return of "The Dwight/Jim dynamic", writing that he "briefly rethought the idea of Dwight as long-term boss", and went on to praise the writers for featuring Dwight as manager for only one episode.[14] He ultimately concluded that "the first real impression of the show after Michael was a strong one."[14] TV Squad writer Joel Keller was very positive towards the episode commenting that "The story also gave me faith that Lieberstein and company might actually do a credible job of exploring the other folks in the office now that the show's dominant force, Michael, is gone".[16]
The A.V. Club's Myles McNutt stated that "'Dwight K. Schrute, (Acting) Manager' demonstrated that the show is perfectly capable of being funny without Carell", but criticized the episode for not featuring more "subtle" humor.[4] He ultimately gave the episode a B.[4] Sam Morgan of Hollywood.com called the episode "fairly decent episode" commenting that the concept of the episode was similar to the 10th episode of the seventh season, "China".[17] He also positively commented on Ellie Kemper's performance, writing that "She came into this series as a sketch actor but for the first time I think she finally started being an 'actor.'"[17] Several commentators praised the scene featuring Dwight massaging Kevin's back.[14][16][17] "Dwight K. Schrute, (Acting) Manager" was voted the fourth highest-rated episode out of 24 from the seventh season, according to an episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally; the episode was rated 8.81 out of 10.[18] In another poll, the episode was voted the second-highest-rated out of 24 from the seventh season, according to a "Survivor" episode poll at the fansite OfficeTally.[19]


"Customer Loyalty" is the twelfth episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the 188th episode overall. The episode was written by Jonathan Green and Gabe Miller, and directed by Kelly Cantley. It originally aired on NBC on January 24, 2013. The episode guest stars Chris Diamantopoulos as Brian the boom mike operator, and Ben Silverman as Isaac, a coworker of Jim's.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) is forced to miss his daughter's first recital after a major investor exits his company, leading to a fight with his wife Pam (Jenna Fischer). Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) tries to prevent Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) from leaving the office. Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) tries to put an end to Pete Miller (Jake Lacy) and Erin Hannon's (Ellie Kemper) flirting with each other. This episode also begins to finally reveal who is behind the documentary.
The episode received largely positive reviews from television critics; many praised Krasinski and Fischer for the dramatic fight at the end. Furthermore, the reveal of the camera crew was commented upon by many critics. The episode was viewed by 4.19 million viewers and received a 2.0/5 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, ranking third in its timeslot. The episode ultimately ranked as the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) is upset that Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) will be leaving Dunder-Mifflin to join Athlead, Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) startup. He tries to browbeat Darryl into staying with Dunder-Mifflin by tallying up his perceived job failures since taking the Athlead job and holding a meeting on customer loyalty with a customer he describes as "enraged", but who demurs at the characterization. When this is ineffective, Dwight joins Darryl's delivery run to make the job more "fun", including ordering a milkshake at a fast food drive-through and throwing it at the server, shouting "Fire in the hole!" Morally outraged, Darryl forces Dwight to stay behind and clean up the mess, whereupon another customer pulls the same prank on Dwight himself. Darryl later laughs at footage of the event that has been uploaded onto the internet, saying that this is what he will miss when he moves to Philadelphia.
Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) assigns Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) and Pete Miller (Jake Lacy) to a social media project that meets with some success. She notices the two flirting with each other for the first time and assumes that she brought it on with the project, citing several unintentional double entendres in her project e-mails. She feels guilty because Erin is Andy Bernard's (Ed Helms) girlfriend and Andy recommended Nellie to the adoption agency, and is afraid that Andy will fire her when he finds out. She hijacks Dwight's customer loyalty meeting to talk about fidelity in relationships, which soon zeroes in on Erin and Pete. Nellie also ends the social media project so they will not be able to flirt. Shamed by Nellie's fidelity speech, Erin assumes a coldly professional attitude towards Pete. However, a talk with Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) reminds Nellie that Andy was not the best boyfriend to Erin and Nellie has second thoughts. She soon restarts the project, "forcing" Erin and Pete to work together again, much to their delight.
Jim's plan to drive home from Philadelphia to see his daughter Cece's ballet recital hits a snag when a major investor says he is backing out. Jim asks his wife Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) to record the recital with her phone, which she agrees to do. During the opening of the recital, she stops recording to take a phone call informing her that she has been chosen to paint an important public mural. In her excitement, she messes up the recording and fails to record any of Cece's appearance. Jim calls her that evening to tell her the investor backed out, and his group will have to work long hours to make up the lost funds. He asks her to send him her recording of the recital as a way to cheer him up, and Pam confesses that she did not tape it. She tries to make light of the mishap by making self-deprecating remarks and pointing out that they can get recordings of the recital from other attendees, but he becomes frustrated at her, scolding her and starting a fight over his new job, the time he spends away from the family, and the sacrifices they are making to get their new life to work. After he hangs up, Pam breaks down in tears. A previously unseen boom operator named Brian (Chris Diamantopoulos) enters into the shot and comforts her, and tells the crew to stop filming.
"Customer Loyalty" was written by co-executive producers Jonathan Green and Gabe Miller, their second writing credit for the series after "Andy's Ancestry".[2][3] It was directed by Kelly Cantley, making her television directorial debut; Cantley previously served as a first assistant director on the series and directed The Office webisode series The Mentor.[3][4]
The episode is the first of the series to actively feature a member of the documentary crew interacting with the characters on screen; before the episode was aired, showrunner Greg Daniels stated that this episode would begin to reveal who was behind the documentary.[5] Originally, the idea to have a sound man named Brian comfort Pam when she was crying was proposed by former series actress and writer Mindy Kaling. According to an interview with B. J. Novak, she had proposed it during the show's third season.[6] The episode guest stars Chris Diamantopoulos as Brian the boom operator. Brian's character is named after the series' actual boom mic operator, Brian Wittle. Wittle played the part of one of the annoyed parents at Cece's recital.[7] Ben Silverman also appears as Issac, one of Jim's coworkers at Athlead. This marks Silverman's third appearance, after cameoing in the episodes "Here Comes Treble" and "Suit Warehouse".[8][9]
The cold open features a montage of Jim setting up a prank—which involves sending Dwight on a quest for the Holy Grail. Through Jim's voice-over, it is heavily suggested that Jim set up the prank sometime circa 2006, which would have taken place during the show's second season.[10] Appropriately, the montage was filmed to look as if the documentarians were using archival footage of Jim; his hair matches the style that Jim had during the first few seasons of the show.[10][11] This is not the first time this technique has been used on the show. During the cold open for the sixth season episode "Shareholder Meeting", a montage of Dwight harassing past receptionists was shown.[12] Furthermore, during the seventh season episode "Threat Level Midnight" was filmed to give the impression that Threat Level Midnight, an amateur feature directed by Michael Scott, had been filmed and edited during the first seven or so seasons of the show.[13]
"Customer Loyalty" originally aired on NBC on January 24, 2013.[1] Before the premiere of the episode, OfficeTally—the largest fan site for the series—was given a message by the show's producers that urged fans to watch "Customer Loyalty" due to the major reveal at the end of the episode. Reportedly, the producers had never done this before.[14] In its original American broadcast, the episode was viewed by 4.19 million viewers and received a 2.0 rating/5 percent share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[15] This means that it was seen by 2.0 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 5 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[15] The Office ranked third in its timeslot, being beaten by an episode of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.0/8 percent rating, and an installment of the Fox series Glee which received a 2.6/7 percent rating. The Office was the highest-rated NBC television program on the night it aired.[15] 2.04 million viewers watched the episode through DVR playback, bringing the total viewership to 6.24 million.[16]
"Customer Loyalty" received largely positive reviews from television critics. James Poniewozik of Time magazine concluded that it "showed the stakes behind its characters' paper-pushing lives in a way it hasn't since Michael Scott left Scranton." He called the first half a "wacky ensemble show", but said that the last part featured elements that allowed the audience to "all but hear the old machinery [of earlier episodes] waking up and sliding into place". Poniewozik stated that Jim and Pam's fight was "believable in its arc and its parameters" and that both characters were presented in a way in which their plights were understandable.[17] Ally Serrigran of Hollywood.com wrote that the "episode was one worth tuning in for." She felt that, for fans of the show who had left when Steve Carell departed, "Customer Loyalty" was the right episode for them to come back to the series. She called the fight between Jim and Pam "jarring in and of itself".[18] Mark Perigard of the Boston Herald commented on the fight between Jim and Pam, writing that it "felt just like the kind of argument that two real people would have."[19] Brett Harrison Davinger of the California Literary Review wrote that the episode was "fine" and was composed of "several small storylines, all of which worked". Davinger called the ending "odd" but "effective".[11]
Michael Tedder of Vulture wrote positively of the episode and awarded it four out of five stars. He called the final fight between Pam and Jim "ugly and real" and one in which "the writers didn't flinch", in that it truly made him feel uncomfortable. Tedder complimented both Fischer and Krasinski, and wrote that Krasinski "doesn't try to make Jim look charming in this fight, just terrified and exhausted." He called Nellie's subplot "the best use of this new version of Nellie", but wrote that Dwight and Darryl's subplot was undeveloped.[20] Rick Porter of Zap2it felt that, while the episode was "up and down" (he wrote that Dwight and Darryl's subplot was "flat", but that Erin and Pete's yielded several humorous lines) the final confrontation between Jim and Pam was "a big dose of reality" and that it was not "a contrived fight".[21] David Wilcox of The Citizen wrote that the fight between Pam and Jim was "welcome" because their relationship had grown stale ever since they had "hooked up and started living their perfect little lives together." Wilcox praised the way in which the fight was written, and wrote that he "couldn't help smiling. Not because the fight wasn't wrenching to watch. But because it was."[22] Cindy White of IGN awarded the episode a 7.8 out of 10, denoting a "good" episode. She reasoned that while the episode was funny but largely forgettable, the final scene made it worth watching.[23]
Not all reviews were as positive. Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "C+", and called it "a middle-of-the-road table-setting episode of The Office" with a "tacked-on coda". Adams wrote that the episode was "not really a 'story' at all" because it was dragged down by elements that are necessary for the episode to play as a standalone piece, even though "it's not meant to be taken as" one. Adams was complimentary towards the episode's cold open but wrote that "there aren't a whole lot of quality laughs in 'Customer Loyalty'".[24] Nick Campbell of TV.com felt that the Erin and Pete relationship was not constructed properly, nor was the conclusion satisfying. Furthermore, he felt that the ending fight was "petty".[25]
Many reviews commented on the reveal of the documentary crew. E! Online named the reveal one of the "Best TV Moments of the Week".[26] Verne Gay of Newsday called the scene a "historic" moment for the show.[27] Serrigran wrote that, between Jim and Pam fighting, and the cameramen making an appearance, the scene was "a lot to take in". However, she felt that the scene was properly done.[18] Jason Hughes of The Huffington Post called the reveal a "huge" and "shocking" moment.[28] Tedder called the reveal "something that we've never seen before on The Office." He admitted that, "the last five minutes of this episode genuinely startled me, which is an impressive feat for a series on its ninth and final season."[20] Porter called the shots with Brian "good" because it reaffirmed that the camera crew was a character, one that had been an integral part of the show.[21] Wilcox wrote that Brian's appearance was a "weird turn", and that it was "kind of funny" that the first time a member of the camera crew intervened with the characters was when Pam needed comforting and not "one of Dwight or Michael's dozens of near-death experiences."[22] Poniewozik enjoyed the reveal of the documentary crew. However, he wrote that, "I don't know if I'm going to like the idea of making Brian an actual player in the events, if indeed that's where the show is going."[17] Adams, on the other hand, said that the reveal of the cameramen was "a Big Moment for The Office, but it has a hollow ring to it" because the cameramen had never before interacted with the members of the office.[24] Campbell wrote that "the show played its documentary crew trump card WAY  [sic] too early" and noted that the crew had never intervened in past events that were on the same level as Pam crying.[25]



"The Client" is the seventh episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's thirteenth episode overall. Written by Paul Lieberstein, who also acts in the show as Toby Flenderson, and directed by Greg Daniels, the episode first aired in the United States on November 8, 2005, on NBC.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) and Michael Scott (Steve Carell) begin a relationship after landing an important client (Tim Meadows). Meanwhile, the rest of the office finds a screenplay written by Michael and they decide to read it together.
The idea for Jan and Michael to have a romantic relationship was conceived by Steve Carell as far back as the filming of the pilot episode. The kiss between the two was rehearsed and filmed "many, many, many times", according to B. J. Novak. While filming, Steve Carell and Tim Meadows improvised a good majority of their dinner scene, but most of it never made the final cut. During the production of the episode, the cast and crew were informed by NBC that the show would be picked up for a whole 22 episodes, a move that "surprised" them. The episode received mostly positive reviews from critics and earned a Nielsen rating of 3.8 in the 18–49 demographic, being viewed by 7.5 million viewers.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) meet with Christian (Tim Meadows), a county government employee in charge of the government's office paper contract. Taking him on as a client could mean the branch will not have to downsize, a threat that has been looming for the past year. Jan is not happy that Michael changed the meeting location from a hotel meeting room to Chili's without permission and persists in jokes and personal discussion instead of getting down to business. However, she discovers at the end of the day that there is a method to his madness, as the bonding between Michael and Christian allows him to close the deal. Afterwards, in the parking lot, Michael and the recently divorced Jan kiss and leave together.
During the meeting Michael calls Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) to read from one of the joke books in his desk, where she finds a screenplay written by Michael entitled Threat Level: Midnight, starring himself as "Agent Michael Scarn". The staff perform a read-through of the script, in which the character sequence "Dwigt" appears. They realize Michael based his incompetent sidekick on Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), but later changed the name with a search and replace, which did not affect the single misspelling of Dwight's name. Dwight is upset and shuts down the exercise to invite everyone to set off fireworks outside, but only Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) follows.
When the staff discuss their worst first dates, Pam astounds them with a story of how her date forgot about her and left her behind at a minor league hockey game. Their astonishment increases when they realize the date was her now-fiancé, Roy. Later, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam break off their respective evening plans to enjoy an impromptu dinner on the roof and watch Dwight and Kevin fool around with fireworks. The next day Jim half-jokingly remarks to Pam that this was their first date. When Pam replies bluntly that it was not a date, Jim is caught by surprise and makes a snide comment about the hockey game date. Hurt, Pam breaks off the conversation.
The following morning, Dwight, having spent the night in the office, sees Jan coming by to retrieve her car, igniting gossip that she had sex with Michael. Michael reveals to the documentary crew that they made out and talked long into the night before falling asleep. Jan calls and says she regrets what happened, even accusing Michael of deliberately getting her drunk to initiate a romantic encounter with her, but Michael refuses to accept her change of heart. He and Jim share a moment of confusion at their (apparently) unrequited loves.
This episode was the third episode of the series directed by Greg Daniels.[2] Daniels had previously directed the episodes "Basketball" and "The Dundies".[3][4] "The Client" was written by Paul Lieberstein, who acts on the show as human resources director Toby Flenderson.[2] The idea for Jan and Michael to have a romantic relationship was conceived by Steve Carell as far back as the filming of the pilot episode. According to writer and producer Greg Daniels "it was like he (Michael) was turned on by his teacher."[5] Writer and actor Paul Lieberstein said that the first idea that anybody came up for the episode was the final shot, where Jim and Michael look at each other and shake their heads, suggesting that they had been through similar experiences. The rest of the episode was written to lead to that scene.[6] The scene where Oscar tells a story about a date getting a background check on him was based on an actual date that Paul Lieberstein went on.[6]
While filming, Steve Carell and Tim Meadows improvised a lot of their dinner scene, but most of it never made the final cut.[7] One improvised scene that did make the final cut was the "Baby Back Ribs" song.[8] In an interview, Jenna Fischer said that the rooftop scene was her favorite to shoot. Fischer recalled that "there was a very small crew up on the roof and they had the cameras really far away."[9] After the main shooting ended, producers decided to do a re-shoot to explain the "Dwigt" situation clearly and concisely.[8] The kiss between Michael and Jan was rehearsed and filmed "many, many, many times", according to B. J. Novak. While editing the kiss between Michael and Jan, Greg Daniels brought many people into the editing room to see if they thought the kiss was too long or not long enough.[7]
During the production of the episode, the cast and crew were informed by NBC that the show would be picked up for a whole 22 episodes.[7] Initially, the show's second season had only been brought back for six episodes, to test the water. Despite the lackluster reception the first season had, ratings jumped during the second season to 7.7 million in the fall alone. After the ratings success, Kevin Reilly, NBC Entertainment president, "surprised" the cast and crew of the staff and ordered a full season; he later likened the series to Seinfeld and Cheers, noting that they too had "slow starts".[10]
Michael tells Jan that he moved their meeting from a Radisson to a Chili's, per advice—that he sent in—to the magazine Small Businessman. During their meeting, Michael tells Christian and Jan the Lighthouse and naval vessel joke. Dwight reveals to the camera that he was once in a production of Oklahoma!, and played the part of "Mutie The Mailman". He explains that the production had too many kids, so they made up extra roles.[11]
Michael's screenplay is a parody of secret agent films, most notably the James Bond franchise. In Michael's screenplay, his love interest is named Catherine Zeta-Jones.[7] The name of Michael's movie has been referenced several other times through the series. In the third season episode "Product Recall", Michael frantically states that, due to the amount of angry customers, the office has been "put at Threat Level Midnight."[12] Michael's screenplay was eventually turned into a home movie, and is viewed by the entire office in the seventh season episode "Threat Level Midnight."[13]
"The Client" originally aired on NBC in the United States on November 8, 2005.[14] The episode was viewed by 7.5 million viewers and received a 3.8 rating/9% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 3.8% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode retained 73 percent of its lead-in "My Name is Earl" audience, the best the show had done up until that point.[15] An encore presentation of the episode, on April 25, 2006, received 2.4 rating/7% share was viewed by over 4.8 million viewers.[16]
The episode received mostly positive reviews from television critics. TV Squad's Michael Sciannamea gave the episode a largely positive review wrote that Michael is "totally taken with himself", but still "has shown us his vulnerabilities".[17] Sciannamea noted that, by showing the audience Michael's humanity, the writers were making "this sitcom so compelling".[17] Sciannamea, however, did point out that this is the second week in a row that "Pam is offended by something Jim has said or done", which in his mind "will get tiresome quickly if it continues".[17] "Miss Alli" of Television Without Pity graded the episode with a "B+".[11] Rolling Stone named the scene wherein the employees read Threat Level: Midnight as the tenth funniest in The Office's first three seasons.[18]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode an "A" and called it "a series-best episode of The Office whose series-best status sneaks up on you".[19] He was largely complimentary towards the way the episode built towards a climax, and followed various successful "setup-punchline rhythms".[19] He also applauded the introduction of the Threatlevel: Midnight screenplay, calling it "a subplot so crucial to the mythology of the series, it would form the basis of an entire episode near the end of Steve Carell’s time in Scranton."[19] Adams ultimately concluded that the episode is "a top-notch Office installment overall", thanks in large part to the Pam-Jim and Michael-Jan subplots and dynamics.[19]


"Free Family Portrait Studio" is the twenty-fourth episode and season finale of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 176th episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC on May 10, 2012. "Free Family Portrait Studio" was written and directed by B. J. Novak, who also wrote and directed the season premiere "The List". The episode guest stars Andy Buckley, Jack Coleman, Sendhil Ramamurthy, Jerry Minor, and Michael Schur.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, David Wallace (Andy Buckley) helps Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) go undercover and stage a coup, and a new opportunity arises for Robert California (James Spader).
"Free Family Portrait Studio" received mixed reviews from critics, with many noting that the episode did not feel like a proper season finale. It was viewed by 4.49 million viewers and received a 2.3 rating/6% share among adults between the age of 18 and 49.  The episode ranked third in its timeslot and was also the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) offers free family portraits in the office, and many members of the office take advantage of the opportunity, including Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) with his very elderly parents, Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) with his teenage daughter Sasha, Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) with her teenage son, Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) with Ravi (Sendhil Ramamurthy), a desperate Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) holding up various signs to try to win back Kelly's affection yet again, and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) with a reluctant Jim (John Krasinski) and their children Cece and Philip. Senator Robert Lipton (Jack Coleman) later comes by with his and Angela Martin's (Angela Kinsey) son Philip to also get a family portrait. Jim suspects that Dwight's motive for giving away family portraits was to get revenge on Jim for a prank involving a fake Velcro suit, but Dwight's real motive was to try to get some of Philip Lipton's DNA to run a test to determine who Philip's actual father is. Angela is very much against this idea and tries to ensure that Dwight does not get the opportunity. After taking the pictures, Robert notices that Philip's diaper is full, so he goes to change him. After doing so Dwight goes into the bathroom to retrieve the diaper, but Angela chases after him as he makes a break for the hospital to run the DNA test. Dwight and Angela then take part in a high-speed car chase until Dwight calls his cousin Mose (Michael Schur) to take her off his trail with a duplicate Trans Am. Angela later finds him in the hospital waiting area, where he confirms he is going to be there for the entire 72-hour waiting period for the DNA results. After she sits down, holding his hand, Dwight begins kissing her and Angela briefly demurs before passionately kissing him in return.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) comes into the office, wearing shabby clothing, and walks straight into manager Nellie Bertram's (Catherine Tate) office and pleads for a job. She eventually caves and makes him janitor for the day. Later, Andy admits in a talking head interview that he has actually convinced former CFO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) to buy Dunder Mifflin from Sabre and then make him the regional manager yet again; Andy is wearing the shabby clothing and making himself smell of alcohol in order to make everyone believe that he is doing poorly, and does embarrassing things such as spilling soup on himself throughout the day, wanting a "delicious moment" when he goes from janitor to regional manager. Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), secretly aware of the plan, becomes concerned, unsure if Andy will be able to recover from this image even after he becomes manager. Andy becomes very dependent on David arriving at the office until David calls him to say that he cannot make it until the next Friday. Andy then announces the plan and upon hearing this everyone, even Erin, assumes that Andy's conversations with David are hallucinations because none of them have seen Andy talking with David. However, David surprisingly shows up to the office and assures everyone that he is indeed buying Dunder Mifflin from Sabre with the $20 million that he got from selling a toy-vacuum invention called "Suck-it" to the United States Military. Andy goes through with his "delicious moment" plan, but no one seems to take much care, as they are more interested in the news of ownership, ruining Andy's moment. David also reveals that Jo Bennett is planning on liquidating the rest of Sabre. Upon hearing this news, Sabre CEO Robert California (James Spader) approaches David in an oddly excitable tone, introducing himself as "Bob Kazamakis" and takes him to the conference room to negotiate.
When Andy is reinstated as manager, he relishes the "delicious moment" he can have when he fires Nellie, but she begs him by reciting Shakespeare's quality of mercy quote from The Merchant of Venice. Frustrated that he cannot have his moment, but taking pity on her, Andy gives Nellie a new job as special projects manager. Robert later tells the office that he will be leaving for the next three years and going to "help" undereducated high school gymnasts, mostly Eastern European, with matching funds of one million dollars, which he convinces David to donate, disgusting the rest of the office. He then exits the office once and for all by giving Andy a kiss, possibly as a symbol of his power being regained, putting his arm around Andy and declaring to the office that "It's been a great year."
Former warehouse workers and lottery winners Calvin (Calvin Tenner) and Hide (Hidetoshi Imura) approach Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) asking for their jobs back as they made a bad investment in an energy drink for Asian homosexuals (which Robert is later seen drinking, and complains about the "coconut" flavor in the "coconut penis"). Darryl accepts them back and shows them around the warehouse and introduces them to new foreman Val (Ameenah Kaplan). Val's boyfriend, Brandon (Jerry Minor), is also there with her and notices the blatant compliments that Darryl gives to Val. Brandon then tells Darryl off which he responds to by just simply walking away. Later, Darryl and his daughter, Jada, are taking pictures at the family portrait studio; Val joins them and holds Darryl's hand.
At the end of the episode, Robert Lipton walks out of the building with Philip and he notices Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez). Robert asks why Oscar did not call after the fundraiser and heavily hints at his attraction to Oscar, which Oscar has repeatedly suggested to be the case. Oscar appears taken aback, but flattered and tempted.
"Free Family Portrait Studio" was written and directed by executive producer B. J. Novak, who also portrays Ryan Howard in the series, marking the last of his 15 writing and five directing credits for the series as Novak ended his day-to-day involvement with the series before Season 9 to work on "The Mindy Project".[1] The episode features the third consecutive appearance of the character David Wallace (Andy Buckley), former CFO of Dunder Mifflin,[2] the seventh appearance of Jack Coleman as Angela's husband, State Senator Robert Lipton, the second appearance of Sendhil Ramamurthy as Kelly's boyfriend Ravi, having previously appeared in the episode "Angry Andy",[3] and the second appearance of former Saturday Night Live cast member Jerry Minor as Val's boyfriend Brandon,[1] having previously appeared in the episode "After Hours". Former Office writer/producer Michael Schur appears as Dwight's cousin Mose for the 10th time, and the first since the episode "Garden Party" earlier in the season.[4] James Spader, who portrayed Robert California, made his final appearance for the eighth season.[5]
The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Robert complimenting Jim and Pam's marriage and admitting his desire to share in their love, which the two take as a metaphorical compliment, Jim receiving a text from Robert asking him if Pam and he are free at 10 the following Friday which causes the two to think that California literally wants to be a part of their relationship, Pam trying to reassure Jim that Robert's odd behavior is a figment of their imagination, and Robert calling off the get-together due to this resignation as CEO of Sabre. Jim, out of curiosity, asks him what he was planning, to which he replies "a three-way".[6]
"Free Family Portrait Studio" originally aired on NBC in the United States on May 10, 2012.[7]   The episode was viewed by 4.49 million viewers and received a 2.3 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[8] This means that it was seen by 2.3% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode stayed even in the ratings from the previous episode, "Turf War".[9] The episode finished third in its time slot, being beaten by Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.5 rating/10% share and the CBS drama Person of Interest which received a 2.6 rating/7% share in the 18–49 demographic.[8] The episode beat the Fox series Touch and The CW drama series The Secret Circle.[8] Despite this, "Free Family Portrait Studio" was the highest-rated NBC television episode of the night.[8] 2.20 million viewers saw the episode through DVR, bringing the viewing total to 6.69 million viewers.[10]
"Free Family Portrait Studio" received mixed reviews from critics. Myles McNutt from The A.V. Club wrote that "Free Family Portrait Studio" proved to be "a disheartening conclusion to the show’s worst season, offering little optimism to sustain our already dwindling enthusiasm over the summer months."[11] He continued to say that the season made him have little interest in "seeing anything further from Andy Bernard".[11] Despite this, he complimented the Dwight subplot due to its slight connection to real human emotions.[11] He ultimately gave the episode a C+.[11] HitFix reviewer Alan Sepinwall wrote that he hoped the new showrunner, following Paul Lieberstein, would undo the developments made in the finale, criticizing the season's run of Andy Bernard as manager and Nellie Bertram's character.[12] He also wrote that he would only view the first handful of episodes, due to the new showrunner and the hope that the season would improve.[12] Cindy White of IGN wrote that the episode "hit all the marks" as a season finale, and said she was happy that Sabre was finally gone from the series.[13] She complimented the good writing and character moments, but criticized the possible return of Nellie and the handling of the Angela-Dwight storyline over the season.[13] She ultimately gave the episode an 8.0/10, calling it "great".[13] Additionally, multiple critics criticized Andy's over-dramatization while trying to make a comeback to Dunder Mifflin.[11][13]


"Job Fair" is the seventeenth episode of the fourth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's seventieth episode overall. Written by Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky and directed by Tucker Gates, the episode first aired in the United States on May 8, 2008 on NBC.[1]
In the episode, Michael and a few employees go to a high school's job fair to find a summer intern for Dunder Mifflin. However, very few students seem interested in the internship. Meanwhile, Jim attempts to make an important sale by golfing with a potential client. At first the client claims to be not interested in talking about business, but after much negotiation, Jim lands the sale. Back at the office, Dwight is left in charge. Everyone leaves except his ex-girlfriend Angela, leading to an awkward day.
After Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) gives Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) a warning about his job performance, Jim tries to land his biggest client ever (Phil Reeves). He takes the potential client golfing, bringing along co-workers Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) and Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner). When Jim tries to talk business, the client reveals that he is not interested in switching paper suppliers. But after much persistence and negotiation, Jim lands the account.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell), Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) and Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) set up a booth at a local job fair to find a student for Dunder Mifflin’s summer internship but while other companies are prepared and have provided materials and products for their booth, Michael only brought a single white piece of Dunder-Mifflin paper. The fair proves unsuccessful, as Michael drives away the only interested student, Justin (Trevor Einhorn) because he deems Justin not cool enough for him. After everyone else either ignores the booth or tells Michael off, Michael tries to recruit Justin as their intern, only for Justin to call Michael out for treating him badly and walk away. Michael then makes such a commotion that the teacher (Lori Murphy Saux) calls security and has him removed from the fair. After, Pam ventures to a booth advertising graphic design, where she discovers that she has yet to learn many graphic design programs. The man (Nelson Franklin) working at the booth recommends she goes to either Philadelphia or New York City to learn about the graphic design technology.
Meanwhile, Michael has left Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) in charge of the office, but none of the employees obey his wishes. When most of the employees leave in the middle of the day, Dwight is left alone except for ex-girlfriend Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), causing the two to interact awkwardly for the rest of the day. When Jim and Pam meet up again in the office, they share two long, passionate kisses having accomplished both of their goals (Jim making the sale and Pam finding out the next step for her future in graphic design).
This episode was the third episode of the series directed by Tucker Gates. Gates had previously directed the third season episodes "Branch Closing" and "Women's Appreciation". "Job Fair" was written by Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg.[2]
In order to create the blisters that Andy had on his hands during the episode, the make-up crew had to use Ben Nye sunburn colors, RCMA scar making material, and acetone. The process took twenty to thirty minutes, in which the sunburn colors were applied first and the scar making material was applied last.[3] Angela Kinsey was pregnant during shooting. Her character wasn't pregnant, so items (such as a copy machine) were placed between her stomach and the camera to hide her pregnancy. Writer Lee Eisenberg recalled that during editing "I asked if we had any wider shots. Both Gene (Stupnitsky) and Dave Rogers (the editor) reminded me that we were shooting around Angela's enormous belly".[4] Kinsey later gave birth on May 3, five days before the episode premiered.[5]
"Job Fair" received 3.6/9 in the ages 18–49 demographic in the Nielsen ratings. This means that 3.6 percent of all households with an 18- to 49-year-old living in it watched the episode, and nine percent had their televisions tuned to the channel at any point. The episode was watched by 7.22 million viewers.[6]
Reviews for this episode were mixed. Travis Fickett, of IGN, criticized parts of the episode, saying that the situation between Dwight and Angela was "played out so minimalist that virtually nothing develops" and even though Michael "gets up and makes an ass of himself" the resolution "isn't much of a pay-off". Fickett did say that although "this may not be the funniest episode, it shows how the series is capable of subtlety and depth."[7] BuddyTV's Oscar Dahl thought that "Job Fair" "had some nice moments, but it was a bit lacking in the comedy department".[8] Jay Black, from TV Squad, wrote that Andy "stole the show".[9]


"Get the Girl" is the nineteenth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 171st episode overall. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on March 15, 2012. "Get the Girl" was written by Charlie Grandy and directed by series regular Rainn Wilson, who portrays Dwight Schrute.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) drives across the country to get Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), who has taken up caring for an elderly woman. Meanwhile, in the Scranton branch, Nellie (Catherine Tate) shows up and tries to claim the manager position.
"Get the Girl" received mixed reviews by television commentators, with multiple critics criticizing the Andy-Erin plot and the character of Nellie Bertram. According to Nielsen ratings, "Get the Girl" was viewed by an estimated 4.88 million viewers and received a 2.3 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode ranked second in its timeslot and was also the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) drives all the way to Florida, without telling anyone, to try and win back Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper), where she has been living with the elderly Irene (Georgia Engel) and her middle-aged grandson, Glenn (Brad Morris), as a live-in maid. He surprises Erin by popping out of a delivery box and singing "Signed, Sealed, Delivered I'm Yours", but she is not particularly excited to see him, and states she does not want to go back to Scranton with him. The situation is further complicated when Andy reveals to Erin that he has not yet broken up with his current girlfriend, Jessica. Andy tells Erin he loves her, but she rejects him; Andy subsequently leaves, his feelings crushed. Irene, who had been treating Andy with disdain over the way Erin spoke of him, sees that he is a truly nice person and encourages Erin to go back with him. She runs up to him as he is leaving in his car and they share a kiss before heading back to Scranton.
Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) shows up in Scranton after Robert California (James Spader) allows her to have a job there after the failure of the Sabre store. When she is invited to take an open desk, she takes Andy's manager desk, as he is absent. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) says she cannot take Andy's job, but Robert is interested in her spontaneous behavior. As acting manager, Nellie decides to give everyone performance reviews. Both Jim and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) refuse to let her proceed, as she is unfamiliar with the other employees. To counter this, Nellie offers Dwight a raise on the spot, and eventually, he and the other employees relent with the promise of raises and other perks, except for Jim. When it is Jim's turn, Jim still refuses. In the end, everyone in the office, except for Jim, applauds her. Nellie promptly begins rearranging the office.
"Get the Girl" was written by Charlie Grandy, his second eighth season writing credit after "Lotto".[2][3] The episode was directed by series regular Rainn Wilson, who portrays Dwight Schrute.[2] This episode marked his third directing credit to the series, after the sixth season's "The Cover-Up", and the seventh season's "Classy Christmas".[4]
The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Nellie offering to give Meredith, Nate, and Darryl a raise; Robert inviting Nellie out for coffee; and Jim, Pam and Darryl attempting to contact Andy; the office discussing the situation with Nellie as manager, Robert refusing to put his foot down; Andy talking to Erin about his drive to Tallahassee; and Andy telling the camera that he will not give up on their relationship easily.[5]
While shaving along the sea shore, Andy picks up a horseshoe crab and sarcastically thanks BP, a reference to the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill.[4] Georgia Engel's character mentions that her son is going to sue Home Depot, a popular retailer of home improvement and construction products and services.[6] Nellie compares herself to Tinkerbell, telling the office that, in order for her to work for them, they need "to believe."[7]
"Get the Girl" aired on March 15, 2012.[1]  The episode was viewed by an estimated 4.88 million viewers and received a 2.3 rating/6% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[8] This means that it was seen by 2.3% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[9] This marked a decrease in the ratings from the previous episode, "Last Day in Florida".[9] The episode finished second in its time slot, beating a rerun of the Fox supernatural series Touch and The CW teen drama series The Secret Circle.[9] Despite this, the episode was defeated by the ABC medical drama Grey's Anatomy which drew a 3.0/6% rating.[9] In addition, "Get the Girl" was the highest-rated NBC television episode of the night, barely beating the return of Community.[9]
The episode received a wide variety of mixed reviews from critics, ranging from largely negative to moderately positive. Matt Dougherty noted that "Get the Girl" returned The Office "to what it was before the Florida storyline, which is bad." Furthermore, he called the episode "the worst ... of the show simply because it lacked any form of logic or emotion."[10] He ultimately gave the episode a 2 out of 10 rating.[10] A review from Clique Clack called the main plot "miserably insufferable".[11] Other reviews were more mixed. Myles McNutt from The A.V. Club gave the episode a C+ rating.[12] A review from WHTC noted that the episode was "rather predictable, somewhat inconsequential, a bit silly and representative of perhaps a slight step back."[13]
Not all reviews were negative. TV Equals called the episode "pretty funny," particularly praising the episode's cold opening.[6] Jeffrey Hyatt from Screen Crave awarded the episode a 7 out of 10, noting that "There have been worse. And this is another one I will re-watch later and probably like better the second time around."[7] IGN reviewer Cindy White gave the episode a 7.0 out of 10 rating, signifying a "good episode."[4] Brett Harrison Davinger from the California Literary Review awarded the episode "faint praise", noting that it was "slightly greater than the sum of its parts."[14]
Many reviews criticized the Andy-Erin plot. White wrote that, "If the Andy and Erin scenes in this episode were supposed to make me root for them, I'm afraid it didn't quite work."[4] Dougherty wrote, "Was anyone else rooting for Erin to just stay down there? I certainly was."[10] McNutt bluntly wrote, "I'm not buying this relationship."[12] The WHTC review noted that the arc was "a total carbon copy of the Jim/Pam version that sucked us all in years ago."[13]
Reviews were split on the addition of Nellie Bertram to the Scranton office. McNutt criticized Nellie Bertram, noting that, despite the character's potential, the show "places her into the series as a blind antagonist without any sense of what drives her to these actions."[12] Craig McQuinn from The Faster Times argued that the producers of The Office seemed to be using her only because "'British people are ridiculous and are completely different to Americans'".[15] Dan Forcella from TV Fanatics, on the other hand, praised Catherine Tate's acting and her character, writing, "Tate's first appearance last season was intriguing, and her stint as head honcho down in Florida was entertaining, but in "Get the Girl" it became obvious that Nellie Bertram as branch manager could be exactly what The Office needs to stay afloat."[16]
Several reviews criticized the decision to film Erin in front of a green screen for one of her talking heads.[6] White attributed the "terrible green-screen effect" among other things, to Wilson's "offbeat sense of humor and style."[4] McNutt proposed that the reason for the "obnoxious" effect was because the show had lost that lawn set but wanted to add an additional talking head scene.[12]


"New Boss" is the twentieth episode of the fifth season of the television series The Office and the 92nd overall episode of the series. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on March 19, 2009. In the episode, Michael Scott is disturbed by the arrival of his new no-nonsense superior Charles Miner, played by The Wire star Idris Elba, making his first of six slated guest appearances with The Office. Meanwhile, Jim struggles to make a good impression on Charles, and Angela and Kelly both develop crushes on their new boss.
The episode was written by Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky, and directed by Paul Feig. It received generally positive reviews from television critics, particularly for the twist of Michael's resignation, which multiple reviewers said added a fresh new change to the series. According to Nielsen ratings, "New Boss" was watched by 7.95 million overall viewers in its original airing.
Michael Scott is planning a party to celebrate his fifteenth anniversary at Dunder Mifflin on the same day that new company vice president, Charles Miner, visits Scranton. Charles exhibits a no-nonsense attitude, making Michael insecure about being in charge. Charles establishes a good relationship with the rest of the staff by buying lunch and revealing the truth about their 401(k) plans and the possibility of layoffs, which Michael withheld to avoid worrying anyone. Charles takes up responsibilities that are normally Michael's, causing Michael to wonder whether his position is threatened. Chief Financial Officer David Wallace advises Michael to become better acquainted with Charles, but he is unsuccessful. Michael fails to contact Wallace by phone, with one attempt transferred to Charles. When Charles sees the Party Planning Committee planning Michael's party, he dissolves the committee, saying it is irresponsible to spend company resources on recreation while employees are being laid off. Frustrated with being undermined, Michael drives to New York to talk to Wallace.
Jim Halpert wears a tuxedo in response to a memo written by Dwight Schrute about "professionalism in the workplace". This leads to an awkward encounter with Charles as Jim explains the tuxedo is a prank. Jim is further scrutinized by Charles when he notices Jim's idea of a "two-way petting zoo" for Michael's party. Jim tries elevating his standing with Charles by discussing his position as Assistant Regional Manager, but when Charles presses him about the position, Jim confesses Michael made it up to appease Dwight. When Charles leaves, Jim says goodbye, with no response. Jim halfheartedly jokes that his career could be over.
Angela Martin and Kelly Kapoor develop crushes on Charles, but their flirtations make him uncomfortable. At the end of the day Kelly puts on more makeup to tempt Charles into asking her out, but he has left. Kelly runs out to the parking lot, finding Angela holding Charles's scarf and chases her. Angela says that Charles deserves better than Kelly.
In New York, Michael tracks down Wallace, who has seemingly been avoiding him. Michael complains about being forced to drive to New York to talk to him, and that he deserves more respect after fifteen years at Dunder Mifflin. David agrees to fund and attend an anniversary party for him. Dissatisfied that David is missing the bigger point, Michael responds by announcing his resignation.
I am much more courageous in real life with the parts I want to play. They don't often come my way. The Office is comedy. No one in a month of Sundays would invite me do comedy. So I love the fact that someone is out there looking and understanding that there might be more in this nutshell.
Idris Elba[1]"New Boss" was written by Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky and directed by Paul Feig. Executive story editor Charlie Grandy conceived the idea of Michael leaving Dunder Mifflin.[2] "New Boss" was the first of six episodes Idris Elba was set to guest star in as Charles, Michael's new Dunder Mifflin superior. It was his first role in a comedy and his first television appearance since leaving his regular role on HBO's The Wire, where he played the character Stringer Bell. Elba, a fan of The Office, said, "The creators of the show called me, said they wanted to put me in as this new character, that I’d be perfect for it, and I was honored, so I said yeah. [...] I’m still playing the straight guy, but he’s kind of got a bit of a quirk to him."[3] The writing staff for The Office were fans of The Wire, and had referred to the show in previous episodes.[4] Of the six episodes Elba appeared in, he said "New Boss" was the only one he watched immediately after they aired because, "I'm hypercritical about my work, so I try not to torture myself."[5] Elba is the second actor from The Wire to appear on The Office, after actress Amy Ryan, who played Michael's love interest Holly Flax.[6] Paul Lieberstein, the Office producer who also plays Toby, said Elba's work on The Wire made him "a really interesting and great foil for Michael".[1] John Krasinski said Elba was initially an intimidating presence on the set, due to the ruthless character he plays on The Wire. However, Krasinski said Elba proved to be "incredibly nice and incredibly funny".[7]
The official The Office website included three cut scenes from "New Boss" within a week of the episode's original release. One clip includes Andy, Creed, Oscar, and Meredith gossiping about Charles; Andy says, "I'm telling you, when corporate sends somebody it is big trouble, or really good news, and then again sometimes it just means business as usual."[8]  Another clip features Jim expressing his worries to Pam about Charles's apparent distaste for him, as Pam playfully makes fun of Jim. The video ends with Pam asking Jim to leave her workspace because, "I don't want him to keep seeing us together."[9]
In what some reporters described as a continuity error, Charles Miner refers to Jim's second-in-command position as "made-up", but the position is real and Jim was officially hired for it in the third season episode "Branch Closing".[10][11] When asked by a fan about the apparent inconsistency, The Office writer Aaron Shure said he believed it was because "Charles is clearly not great at reading people and he's headstrong", and the fact that Jim does not normally care about titles, so he was not used to having to defend himself in such a way. However, Shure admitted he was "[trying] to wiggle out of this one" with his answer.[2]
In its original American broadcast on March 19, 2009, "New Boss" was watched by 7.95 million overall viewers and received a Nielsen rating of 3.9 among adults aged between 18 and 49, and 4.4 among ages 18 to 34.[12] The episode received generally positive reviews. Marc Hirsh of National Public Radio said the addition of the no-nonsense Charles Miner character infused a sense of reality into The Office, which he said was growing increasingly wacky and out of control: "[The episode] may, in fact, have been one of the most important episodes of the entire series, acting as a corrective to the show's increasing flirtations with ridiculousness. The characters of The Office have lived in a bubble for long enough."[13] Travis Fickett of IGN said "New Boss" brought a badly needed change to the series, which he said had been in a "stagnant state" over the last several episodes. Fickett said Steve Carell gave "a tour de force" as Michael saw his power slip away, and he called the final scene when Michael quit as one of the show's biggest moments. He said, "Watching Miner work like a monkey wrench thrown into the works is the most fun I've had watching this show in a long time."[14] Shahzad Abbas of TV Guide said, "Overall, this was a terrific episode, tightly structured, some nice laugh-out loud moments, and a genuine shocker at the end that was completely consistent with Michael's personality."[15]
Alan Sepinwall, television critic for The Star-Ledger, said the episode was satisfying, although he felt it was short on laughs, except for Jim's antics with the tuxedo and the episode's documentary-style interviews. Sepinwall particularly praised the twist of Michael quitting and said he looked forward to seeing where the subplot went.[10] Jeff Labrecque said "watching Jim flail for approval [was] one of the episode's most awkward delights", but he said the episode was really about "the type of man Michael Scott really is". Labrecque also said he looked forward to seeing how Michael regained his job, and raised the suggestion that the reason Michael clashed so much with Charles was because he was intimidated by the man's race.[16] Brian Howard of The Journal News said, "For 22 minutes of not much fun and only some funny, 'New Boss' was a pretty good episode." He particularly liked the ending, which he said he did not see coming and served as a kind of redemption for Michael; Howard also liked Pam's documentary interviews and Jim's failed efforts to make a good impression to Charles.[11] Several reviewers particularly praised the line about the "two-way petting zoo", a zoo in which people pet the animals and the animals pet back.[10][11][15]
Joshua Alston of Newsweek criticized the episode and the introduction of the Charles character. Although Alston said Elba's acting was fine, he said the character "sucked the funny out of every scene he was in" and created an awkwardness inappropriate for the show.[6] During the week following the episode's original broadcast, many fans theorized on the Internet that Michael said "I acquit" rather than "I quit", and that Michael's supposed resignation was something of a prank. Jenna Fischer, who plays Pam on The Office, addressed this issue on her MySpace blog, saying, "He said 'I quit'.  And he meant it.  You will see how it all plays out this week on the show."[17]
The introduction of Charles Miner ranked number three in phillyBurbs.com's top ten moments from the fifth season of The Office.[18]



"The Job" is the third-season finale of the American version of The Office and the show's 52nd and 53rd episodes overall. In this episode, Michael prepares for his interview for the corporate job and names Dwight as his successor, whose managing methods are unpopular. Jan arrives at the office to see Michael and everyone is shocked when it appears she has undergone breast augmentation. Jim and Karen also interview for the corporate position, and Pam deals with the consequences of her earlier outburst.
The episode was written by Paul Lieberstein and Michael Schur, and was directed by Ken Kwapis. It was cut down from an hour and twelve minutes to forty-two minutes, making it the season's second hour-long episode after "A Benihana Christmas". Kwapis carefully shot Jim's reaction shots, as he did not want to reveal Jim's choice of Karen or Pam to the audience. The cast were unaware how the season would end, as multiple endings were shot by the crew. Filming wrapped up in April 2007.
The finale first aired in the United States on May 17, 2007 on NBC. An estimated 7.9 million viewers watched the episode; it earned a 3.9/12 ratings share among adults 18–49, making it rank first for the night. Television critics gave positive reviews to the finale, with many finding the ending scene between Jim and Pam satisfying. It won the Writers Guild of America Award for Best Screenplay – Episodic Comedy and the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series. In addition, Jenna Fischer received a nomination for Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series.
Confident that he will get the corporate job in New York City, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) sells his condo and names Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) his successor as Regional Manager. Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) cheerfully withstands her colleagues' teasing over her speech from "Beach Games", and tells Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones) that she is not sorry about what she said but regrets putting Karen in an awkward position. Meanwhile, Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) asks Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) whom he finds more attractive between Karen and Pam. Though Jim initially refuses to answer, he becomes intrigued when Kevin starts to compare the two women. He tells Kevin to keep thinking about it in a joking way, but appears to be very interested in the results.
Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) arrives at the office to win Michael back. In a panic, Michael consults the women of the office. Pam tells him not to reconcile with Jan. Michael attempts to reject Jan, but reverses himself immediately when he sees that she has had a breast augmentation. Jim and Karen drive to New York City together and spend the night before their interviews. Karen tells Jim that if either of them gets the job, both should move to New York. She promises to do so, but is met with awkward silence when she asks Jim to reciprocate. Meanwhile, Dwight begins his new regime, assigning Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) the role of his number two (albeit because he is the only one to apply) and asking Pam to be his secret "Assistant to the Regional Manager". Dwight's new motivational style is not popular, and so he and Andy repaint the walls of Dwight's new office black in order to instill intimidation.
During his interview at Corporate, Michael learns from CFO David Wallace (Andy Buckley) that he is interviewing for the job currently held by Jan, who will be fired. Michael goes to Jan's office after the interview and quickly bumbles into revealing her impending termination. Jan storms into Wallace's office, interrupting Karen's interview (who stated to David that Michael "would be a disaster" in the new job), and refuses to leave. After Jan is escorted out by security, Michael learns that he will not be getting the position. On the drive home, Jan tells Michael that she will make their relationship her "full-time job”, making Michael visibly uncomfortable.
Jim's interview with David goes well until he discovers an encouraging note from Pam along with a yogurt lid medal, reminiscent of the earlier episode "Office Olympics", throwing him off. Jim recalls a conversation with Pam after her confession on the beach. He discreetly admits that he left Scranton because of her rejection and that he feels that he has "never really come back," meaning that he has been actively fighting his feelings for her. Pam tells him that she wishes that he would come back.
Just as Pam is telling the cameras that she accepts that she does not think that it would work out between her and Jim, he bursts into the room and asks her out to dinner.  Stunned, she agrees, and Jim says, "Alright. Then, it's a date." After Jim exits the room,  Pam becomes visibly joyous and forgets what she was talking about.
During a phone call, David Wallace offers the job to Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), who accepts and immediately breaks up with Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling).
"The Job" was written by Paul Lieberstein and Michael Schur. It was directed by Ken Kwapis, who had, around the same time, directed The Office actors John Krasinski, Brian Baumgartner, Mindy Kaling, and Angela Kinsey in the 2007 film License to Wed.[2] Script reading for the episode took place on a beach during the filming of the season's twenty-third episode, "Beach Games". Actress Kate Flannery remarked that "we were so excited that we almost had another hot dog eating contest. Not. It's a great script. Lots of questions answered. Lots. The Office fans have been anxiously awaiting a one-hour episode, and guess what? You got it."[3] The original cut of the episode was an hour and twelve minutes long, and had to be edited down to forty-two minutes of screentime. It was the second Office episode to fill the entire hour timeslot; the first was the third-season episode "A Benihana Christmas".[4]
Krasinski received a haircut due to production on another film, Leatherheads (2008), which he thought "ended up working perfectly" for the season finale. Co-creator Greg Daniels had wanted Jim to get a haircut for a while, as he thought it would "change [him] up a little bit." Krasinski thought it was "really smart" to make it seem like Karen's idea. Kwapis was careful with Jim's reaction shots in the episode, as he did not want to "tip anything" to the audience about Jim's choice of Karen or Pam. Kwapis explained, "That to me was actually one of the big challenges of the episode is how to keep you on your toes in terms of not knowing where the story was going." Jim's flashback scene with Pam on the beach was initially intended to be the cold open of the episode before Michael Schur suggested it be moved.[4] Kwapis shot multiple endings, and the cast was unaware how the season would end.[3][5]
Jenna Fischer enjoyed doing her individual scenes with Rainn Wilson because their characters rarely interacted one-on-one. The filming of these scenes took place on the last days of production for the season, and not many people were still on set.[4] The episode finished shooting in April 2007.[3][6] Two weeks before the finale, actor Oscar Nunez gave brief allusions in an interview with Entertainment Weekly, "There will be some movement. Major things moving. Major shifts that affect the entire office. So there's some good stuff coming up. That's all I can say."[6]
The episode first aired in the United States on May 17, 2007, several days after NBC announced a fourth season.[8][9] "The Job" attracted 7.9 million viewers and earned a 3.9/12 ratings share among adults 18 to 49. It ranked first for the night in that demographic, and was NBC's highest among adults and total viewers in its timeslot since the broadcast of "Cocktails".[10] Among total viewers, The Office ranked third in its timeslot (behind a CBS tribute to the retiring Bob Barker and ABC's first season finale of Ugly Betty).[11]
The season finale received generally positive reviews from television critics. Entertainment Weekly columnist Abby West wrote that it "was hands down one of the most satisfying hours of television I have ever had the pleasure of watching," explaining that it created "entirely new dynamics" for the fourth season, hit "all major beats," and had "real story progression" and heart.[12] Give Me My Remote writer Kath Skerry declared that the episode was "brilliantly written, acted, and well paced. It was filled with twists and turns that I didn’t see coming. And I know that it sounds cliche, and I know saying it sounds cliche, sounds cliche. Maybe I’m being cliche but I don’t care. I am what I am – a full fledged Office addict who got exactly what she wanted, and in fact needed from the finale."[13] James Poniewozik of Time magazine voiced similar sentiments, believing the finale to be a "good if not great season-ender, and if the conclusion didn't have the holy-crap factor of The Kiss last year, Pam’s closeup reaction to Jim’s return during her interview was–like everything Jenna Fischer does on this show–winning and sweet." Poniewozik disliked how the season left Karen, calling it "an uncharacteristic way to end this love triangle, which was distinguished by the writers’ refusal to make anyone the bad guy."[14]
The best thing about the season-long Jam saga was that the writers, with Fischer’s able help, made it about more than the receptionist’s lonely pining for some guy. Ultimately–and this was beautifully set up, going back to Pam’s art show and before–it was about Pam missing herself, needing to become confident, brave and self-sufficient. She was delighted when Jim came back to her, but the nice thing is (and this is something the British Office never managed with melancholy Dawn) she had already found happiness unto herself.
James Poniewozik, Time magazine[14]IGN's Travis Fickett rated "The Job" 8.2/10. He believed that the episode "pulled off some rather brilliant turns" with the storylines concerning Jan and Jim, Karen, and Pam; additionally noting that the episode was at its weakest during Dwight's take-over scenes in Scranton since he knew Michael would be returning and that Ryan's selection "makes for some interesting scenarios for next season."[7] AOL TV contributor Jay Black highlighted scenes he found humorous, including Dwight's preferred choice of an assistant and Michael's reaction to Jan's implants. He gave the episode "7 Shrute Bucks out of 7."[15] Various cast members were also lauded for their performances, including Jenna Fischer,[7][12][14] John Krasinski,[13] and Melora Hardin.[7]
In an article written after the episode's broadcast, actress Kate Flannery observed that "lots of questions" were answered and that it was "like a movie." Referring to the agreed-to date between Jim and Pam, Flannery said, "The point is that the elephant in the room has not only been addressed but asked to dinner. Makes Season 4 seem filled with possibilities – like an empty glass in front of a full bar."[16] In an article written around the time of actor Steve Carell's last performance on The Office in 2011, IGN's Cindy White listed Michael's quote about Jan's "breast enhancement" as among the best of the series.[17] Dan Philipps, another writer for IGN, ranked Jim's date proposal among the best moments for the couple, stating that "after toying with fans' expectations for two whole seasons, the series' writers finally allowed fans to breathe a sigh of relief. For many, the moment was well worth the wait."[18]
For their writing of "The Job", Paul Lieberstein and Michael Schur won the Writers Guild of America Award for Best Screenplay – Episodic Comedy,[19] beating The Office episodes "Local Ad" and "Phyllis' Wedding" as well as episodes of 30 Rock, Flight of the Conchords, and Pushing Daisies.[20][21] At the 59th Creative Arts Emmy Awards, editors David Rogers and Dean Holland won for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series.[22] For her work in "The Job", Jenna Fischer received a nomination for 
Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series, but lost to Jaime Pressly for her performance in My Name is Earl.[23]


"New Guys" is the first episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 177th episode overall. It originally aired on NBC on September 20, 2012. The episode was written and directed by series creator Greg Daniels; this is his first writing credit for the series since the seventh season episode "Goodbye, Michael", and his first directing credit since "PDA".
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, two new employees (Clark Duke and Jake Lacy) are hired by the Scranton branch and cause trouble for Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski). Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) returns from manager training, hoping for revenge on Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate). Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) considers adopting Angela Lipton's (Angela Kinsey) cat. Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) tries to save a turtle.
"New Guys" was the inception of several story arcs and saw the departures of Mindy Kaling as Kelly Kapoor and B. J. Novak as Ryan Howard, due to their involvement in the former's own sitcom The Mindy Project. "New Guys" received largely positive pre-release reviews from television critics. Post-release reviews were mixed; while many felt that the episode was a distinct step in the right direction for the show, others took issues with some of the comedic aspects of the episode. "New Guys" was viewed by 4.28 million viewers and received a 2.1 rating among adults between the age of 18 and 49, making it the show's lowest-rated season premiere. The episode ranked second in its timeslot and was also the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
Various workers in the office explain what they did over the summer: Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) tried to save a turtle that he ran over, making a new shell after he cannot put the old one back together. He broke the new one as well, so made a second one, but found the turtle was already dead, likely from when he ran it over the first time. Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) moved to Ohio with her fiancé Ravi and Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) also moved to Ohio for "unrelated reasons". Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) made a new “energy drink” from beet run-off and also learned that he is not the biological father of Angela Lipton's (Angela Kinsey) baby. Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) reveal that Jim was offered an entrepreneurial sports job by an old college friend based on an idea the two had in college. Jim tells the camera that he turned it down, because the long distance would not be good for his family. Pam and Jim begin to take off their microphones and Pam makes a remark, noting that, after nine years, the cameramen should have enough footage for a documentary. One of the cameramen then addresses the two, saying that they are more interested in the developments of the office workers themselves, especially Jim and Pam, rather than the office now. Jim looks pensive when Pam tells the cameramen that they expect to live a calm, normal life, given their work and children, and that “nothing interesting is going to happen to [them] for a long, long time.”
Two new employees, Clark Green (Clark Duke) and Pete Miller (Jake Lacy), who are quickly dubbed "Dwight, Jr." and "The New Jim" based solely on their respective visual similarities, are hired by the Scranton branch and cause trouble for Jim and Dwight. At first, Dwight is happy to have a protégé, acting as a fatherly figure to Clark (which disturbs Clark), but soon begins to fear that Clark is after his job. Jim, on the other hand, does not feel that he and Pete have anything in common. However, after hearing Pete discuss his future plans, Jim realizes that he used to have Pete's ambition but has become stuck at the same job for over nine years. Angela puts one of her cats, Comstock, up for adoption as her baby is allergic to it. Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) initially refuses to adopt Comstock despite Angela's pleas, but agrees to adopt it after learning that it is her husband Robert's (Jack Coleman) favorite cat. It is implied that Robert and Oscar are having an affair, as Robert told Angela he was having a business dinner on the night he actually had plans with Oscar.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) returns from Outward Bound manager training — where he became more "decisive and confident" — hoping for revenge on Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) for commandeering his job during the previous spring. To do this, Andy sets up a slackline in the parking lot and makes the employees walk across it, humiliating Nellie as she insists on walking in her heels (due to disliking her feet) and fails to keep her balance (due to Andy pushing her). After Clark proves that he is talented at balancing, Dwight attempts to one-up him, but ends up failing repeatedly and hurting himself. Eventually, Dwight tries to prove his superiority by riding a bicycle across a tight-rope suspended between the roof and a telephone pole, but the printer he is using as a counterweight is not heavy enough and he ends up losing his balance and hanging from the bicycle above the parking lot, while his coworkers who were leaving look on in horror. Much to his embarrassment, he has to be rescued by a team of firefighters, while Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) mistakenly believes the incident to be a circus act, erroneously commenting that this was "not bad for a day in the life of a dog food company." While everyone is outside crowding around Dwight, Jim calls up his old college friend and tells him that he wants to be involved in the new business deal, even though he did not have Pam's approval.
On May 11, 2012, NBC renewed The Office for a ninth season and it was later announced that Greg Daniels, who had been the series showrunner from season one through five, would be returning.[2] "New Guys" was written and directed by Daniels.[3] This is his first writing credit for the series since the seventh season entry, "Goodbye, Michael",[4] and his first directing credited since season seven's "PDA".[5] This also marks the third time he has both written and directed an episode, after the first season episode "Basketball" and the fourth season opener, "Fun Run".[6][7] Daniels later revealed that "New Guys" would be the inception of big season arcs.[8] He went on the record saying "I'll tell you that the last couple of years, I don't think we did any big arc-type things in the way that we used to in the beginning, I think the thing we're going to do is bring back a lot of arcs".[9] Jenna Fischer later stated that part of the Jim and Pam arc would be dependent on "things that happened in seasons past that didn't seem very relevant at the time and [that] they're going to become important this season."[10]
"New Guys" featured one of the final few performances of Mindy Kaling as Kelly Kapoor, who left the series to star in her own comedy television series The Mindy Project, which was created for the Fox Broadcasting Company.[11] Both Novak and Kaling appeared in two episodes of the season—"New Guys" and "Finale".[12][13][14] The episode features both Clark Duke and Jake Lacy as two new Dunder Mifflin employees who have been hired to "go through the back log of over 4,000 unanswered customer complaints that" Kelly has ignored the past few years.[8] Duke noted that filming the slack lining scene "was not that fun; it was really hard". He did, however, state that Helms was able to do it well "with no practice".[15] The voice of the documentarian that responds to Jim is that of series director David Rogers. Rogers also voiced the same character in the penultimate episode opener "A.A.R.M.". Originally, Daniels had re-recorded the line in "New Guys", but ended up liking Rogers' voice better. He asked him to reprise the role in "A.A.R.M." to preserve continuity.[16]
The official website of The Office included several cut scenes from "New Guys" within a week of the episode's release. In the first 40-second clip, Dwight tries to bond with Clark by discussing an article he read in Time magazine about dub-step. Clark teases Dwight for reading the magazine, something he considers for older audiences, but Dwight is oblivious.[17] In the second 75-second clip, Toby calls a workplace bullying meeting and the office discusses how Andy has been harassing various people. Kevin declares that Angela bullies him, and states that she will not give him her cat because he killed his turtle "a few times".[18] In the third and final 30-second clip, Jim tries to convince Dwight that the relationship Dwight shares with Clark is similar to that of Darth Vader and Luke Skywalker, characters from the popular science fiction movie franchise Star Wars.[19]
Much like the sixth season starter "Gossip"—which featured parkour in the cold opening—the seventh season opener "Nepotism"—which started with a lip dub—and the eighth season premiere "The List"—which opened with a bit about planking—"New Guys" also contains a plot involving a popular Internet meme, in this case slacklining, which is a practice in balance that typically uses nylon webbing tensioned between two anchor points.[20][21] When Ryan is leaving, he claims he is going to Ohio because "they call it the Silicone Prairie," a reference to Silicon Valley, a part of the San Francisco Bay Area in Northern California in the United States that is home to many of the world's largest technology corporations.[22] Andy returns from Outward Bound, an organization that aims to foster the personal growth and social skills of participants by using challenging expeditions in the outdoors.[23] Dwight tries to talk to Clark about the heavy metal band Slayer, noting that he has tickets for a show in ten months.[24] Jim asks Pete if he likes the Philadelphia Phillies, but Pete mistakes his reference to mean horses.[25]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club compared Dwight and Clark's relationship to that of the mythical characters of King Laius and Oedipus, respectively.[26] The story, which was later turned into a popular play Oedipus Rex by Greek writer Sophocles, tells of how Laius hears of a prophecy that his son will kill him. Fearing the prophecy, Laius abandons his son, Oedipus', who is raised in the city of Thebes. Oedipus later crosses paths with Laius and gets into a fight and, not knowing that Laius is his father, kills him.[27] Adams argues that the "break-room conversation" Dwight and Clark share echoes the myth of Oedipus, given that it starts to make Dwight paranoid and fear that Clark is after his job.[26]
Many reviewers noted that the episode made references to previous episodes of the series. The ending, featuring Dwight riding a bicycle on the roof, was positively compared to the third season episode "Safety Training".[26][28] Adams wrote that many of the scenes "take characters to corners of the office tied to memories of episode's  [sic] past", such as Oscar's phone call, which takes place in the stairwell where Dwight pumped himself up for his work review in the second season episode "Performance Review", and Pam climbing up the rooftop access ladder, which is reminiscent of Pam and Jim's first "date" in the second season episode "The Client".[26]
"New Guys" originally aired on NBC on September 20, 2012.[29] The episode was viewed by 4.28 million viewers and received a 2.1/6 percent share in the 18–49 demographic.[30][31] This means that it was seen by 2.1 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[31] This marked a 46 percent drop in viewership from the season eight premiere "The List" and made it the lowest-rated premiere of The Office to air.[30] The Office finished second in its time slot, being beaten by an episode of the Fox series Glee, which received a 2.9/8 percent rating.[31] "New Guys", however, finished ahead of repeats of the CBS show Two and a Half Men and the ABC series Grey's Anatomy and a new episode of The CW show The Next.[31] The Office was also the highest-rated NBC television program of the night.[31] "New Guys" was the twenty-first most-watched show for the week of broadcast among adults aged 18–49.[32] This marked a slight improvement from the season eight premiere, "The List", which ranked as the twenty-second.[33] When DVR numbers were included, the episode increased its ratings up 52 percent to a 3.2, meaning it was seen by, in total, 3.2 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds.[34]
Several pre-release reviews of the episode were generally positive. Bruce Miller of the Sioux City Journal gave the episode a largely positive review and noted that "If you can erase last season from your mind, you'll see this ... is exactly how The Office should have carried on after Steve Carell left." Furthermore, he praised the addition of Duke and Lacy, calling their performances "so good you could see them become the centerpiece of a new series."[3] Verne Gay of Newsweek awarded the episode an "A−" and called the installment "very (very) funny." He was especially happy about the addition of Lacy and Duke, calling them "flashbacks to a younger Jim and Dwight." Furthermore, he noted that "the ninth and final season actually may offer completion" of a show that has just "merely offered variations on [the characters'] tics" for the past eight seasons.[35] Bob Owen of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette called the episode "generally funnier than [the show] was last season" and wrote that the episode would be a good opportunity "for viewers who quit the [series] last year ... to come back to the show." Particularly, he was excited to "see the seeds of the show's end planted."[23]
Entertainment Weekly writer Ken Tucker concluded that "New Guys" has "a lot more snap and vigor than most of last season's episodes." He was extremely complimentary towards the Pam and Jim story arc that was hinted at, noting that, after settling into a comfortable marriage, the show was finally trying to make them interesting again.[36] David Silverberg of DigitalJournal.com called the entry "one of the show's best [premieres] in recent years" and concluded that the addition of Duke and Lacy "work as a better foil than Nellie and the creepy boss played by James Spader."[37] Adams awarded the episode a "B+" and called it "a fresh start" for the series after the eighth season. Adams also complimented the show for "stop[ing] every so often to acknowledge the fans that have stuck with the series [and] also mak[ing] subtler callbacks to the show's glory days." He was also complimentary towards the fact that Duke and Lacy have not been thrown into stories of their own, rather, they "serve as parallels and stimulants to Dwight and Jim."[26]
Nick Campbell of TV.com called the episode "a decent" and "moderately sharp" season premiere. He concluded that, "While the episode still wasn't on par with those of the show's earliest seasons, ... The episode wasn't lazy—and for The Office, that's a win."[38] Other reviews were slightly more mixed. TV Fanatic reviewer Dan Forcella awarded the episode a three out of five, but was appreciative of the additions to the cast, as well as many of the actors story lines.[39] Jeffrey Hyatt of Screencrave noted that the episode was similar in tone to the season eight finale, "Free Family Portrait Studio", but that "the addition of Lacy and Duke pay quick dividends as the opener provides flashes of comedy moxie, while helping wash away painful memories of last season."[24] David Hinckley of the New York Daily News awarded the episode three stars out of five and wrote that "The deadpan goofiness remains fresh enough to keep fans interested" and that "the fact that this whole drama doesn't feel new and shiny anymore isn't anyone's fault. ... All The Office needs to do now is march out proudly random, zany and off-center."[40] HitFix's Alan Sepinwall, however, was critical of the episode's humor, noting that it "didn't give me a lot of hope for a last-minute resurgence".[41] Matt Roush of TV Guide wrote that the "one interesting storyline" may make him watch the remainder of Pam and Jim's story, but not "the rest of this sadly played-out workplace comedy."[42]
Many reviews were complimentary towards the interaction Pam and Jim had with the cameramen. Silverberg called it "a nice surprise".[37] Tucker called the sequence one of the "biggest reveals" in the episode.[36] Sepinwall, despite being critical of the episode's humor, found the sub-plot "interesting". He called it "a character arc I've been waiting for the show to remember to do for years now, and the scenes here were promising (if not incredibly funny)".[41]


"Mrs. California" is the ninth episode of the eighth season of the American comedy television series The Office, and the show's 161st episode overall. "Mrs. California" aired on NBC in the United States on December 1, 2011. The episode was written by consulting producer Dan Greaney, marking his first writing credit for the series, and was directed by Charlie Grandy.
The series—presented as if it were a real documentary—depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In the episode, Robert California (James Spader) brings his wife (Maura Tierney) into the office for a job, and tells Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) behind her back not to give her one. Meanwhile, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) opens a gym in the building and tries to get Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) to join it.
Tierney was brought in to play the role of California's wife because showrunner Paul Lieberstein stated that he was "a big fan of hers". "Mrs. California" received mixed responses from television critics. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode received 5.74 million viewers and received a 2.9 rating/7% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, staying even with the ratings from the previous episode, "Gettysburg". The episode also ranked at first in its time slot.
While Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) is having a meeting with Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) in his office, Robert California (James Spader) appears at the window and frantically says that his wife Susan (Maura Tierney) is looking for a job in the office, and that Andy must not give her one. When Susan arrives, Andy compliantly tells her that they have no openings, but Robert insists that they have a look around before coming to any conclusions. Susan looks at the different departments, and decides on accounting. Andy again claims the office is already fully staffed, but Robert insists that he give her a job, even pressuring Andy by reminding him of his power as CEO. Confused by Robert's mixed messages, Andy relents and gives her a job, but Robert later calls Andy on the phone to berate him for hiring Susan. Andy asks everyone in the office to treat her poorly to drive her out, which makes everyone uncomfortable as they like her, but end up doing so nevertheless.
When Susan notices their behavior, she complains to Robert, who asks Andy to discuss the issues with Susan in the conference room and leaves. Susan eventually realizes it was Robert's idea to drive her away. When they call Robert out, he vehemently denies it. Andy tells them Jim also heard him say he did not want her working at the office, which Jim overhears, prompting him to flee the office, not wanting to be part of the drama. Robert finds out Jim has fled, and orders security to close the gate, preventing Jim from leaving. Jim then runs all over the building (at one point encountering Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) flying a toy helicopter on the roof), but Andy and Robert find him and take him back to the office. After trying unsuccessfully to deflect their questions about what Robert told Andy, Jim blurts out that he is baffled at Robert's attitude, since Jim enjoys working in the same place as his wife Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) and misses her while she is on maternity leave. Andy and Jim leave the conference room and after a short while, Robert and Susan leave. In the parking lot, Andy apologizes to Susan and after brief small talk, Susan asks Andy out on a date, leaving him surprised.
In the episode's b-plot, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) opens a gym in the building, which intrigues Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), who has been looking to lose weight. However, Dwight's gym is only filled with his farming equipment as exercising equipment. Darryl says he needs actual equipment, which Dwight finally gets, but sees that Darryl is barely using it, in part due to Dwight's insistence they focus on working the pelvic bowl. Dwight asks more employees to join to help motivate Darryl to exercise harder, getting only Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) to join. During a bench-press, Dwight refuses to spot Darryl unless he says his motivation to work out. Darryl finally says it is to impress the new female warehouse worker Val, though Dwight believes he is referring to Val Kilmer.
"Mrs. California" was written by consulting producer Dan Greaney, his first writing credit for the series after joining the writing staff in the eighth season.[2] Greaney had previously worked with executive producer Greg Daniels on The Simpsons.[3] It was directed by co-executive producer and frequent Office writer Charlie Grandy, the first episode he has directed for the series after previously directing The Podcast webisodes. "Mrs. California" features a guest appearance from Maura Tierney, who played Robert California's wife, Susan California.[4] Showrunner Paul Lieberstein stated that he was "a big fan of hers" and said he was excited for her guest appearance.[5] The episode also marks the third appearance of Lindsey Broad who plays Cathy, Pam's replacement during her maternity leave.[6] She is currently set to appear in a recurring role for the season.[6] Due to Jenna Fischer's actual pregnancy Pam did not appear in the episode.[7] The Season Eight DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include more office workers joining Dwight's gym, Andy and Jim trying to get out of Mr. and Mrs. California's difficulties, and more scenes of Jim running away.[8]
Ryan mentions his desire to found the "Dream for a Wish Foundation," a play on the actual Make-A-Wish Foundation.[9] During Dwight and Darryl's gym scenes, Darryl sardonically corrects Dwight by telling him that the pronunciation for LeBron James is actually "LeJon Brames."[10]  Later, Dwight attempts to get Darryl to stretch his pelvic bowl by telling him that The Fonz did it to become cool.[9][10] Near the end of the episode, Darryl admits that he is attempting to impress Val from the warehouse, but Dwight believes he is talking about male actor Val Kilmer.[9][10]
In addition, several films are mentioned or alluded to.  Erin makes a reference to the 2006 film The Devil Wears Prada.[9] Darryl comments that Dwight's gym looks like "a scene out of Saw V."[10] Finally, Andy mentions that he "was watching a movie, and a bunch of apes took over San Francisco."[11]
In its original American broadcast on December 2, 2011, "Mrs. California" was viewed by an estimated 5.74 million viewers and received a 2.9 rating share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.[12] This means that it was seen by 2.9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. The episode stayed even with the ratings from the previous episode, "Gettysburg".[12][13] Despite this, the episode ranked first in its timeslot, beating Bones which received a 2.8 rating/7% share in the 18–49 demographic, CMA Country Christmas which received a 2.2 rating/6% share, a rerun of Person of Interest which received a 1.6 rating/4% share and a rerun of The Secret Circle which received a 0.4 rating/1% share, although the former three shows received more total viewers.[12] Added with DVR viewers, who viewed the episode within three days of the original broadcast, the episode received a 4.2 rating in the 18–49 demographic, adding a 1.3 rating to the original viewership.[14] For the week of November 28 – December 4, 2011, "Mrs. California" placed nineteenth in the ratings among all prime-time broadcasts in the 18–49 demographic.[15]
"Mrs. California" received mixed responses from critics. The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt said the episode had the possibility of being a great episode of The Office, but that it did not live up to that possibility. He suggested that the writers could tell jokes, but could not successfully "break a story anymore". He also called the subplot a mixed bag for featuring Dwight as a caricature of his former self, but complimented the character development for Darryl which started in "Lotto". He gave the episode a C+.[9] Hannah Lawrence of Hollywood.com called the episode a large improvement over "Gettysburg" and also called it possibly her "favorite episode of the season so far".[16] Chris Plante of New York called Robert California the worst part of The Office and said that he kept Andy from being more of a lead character for the series.[17] TV Guide writer Bruce Fretts criticized the episode for under using guest star Maura Tierney. He also said that the episode suffered without former series star Steve Carell to serve as the comic foil.[18] IGN writer Cindy White said the episode did not feel like The Office and called it "the exact opposite". Despite this, she went on to compliment Susan asking Andy on a date and the pairing of Darryl and Val as a couple, saying that the latter had possibilities. She ultimately gave the episode a 7.5/10.[19] Joseph Kratzer from What Culture? gave the episode three out of five stars and wrote, "I'm going to go out on a bit of a limb here and say that while 'Mrs. California' was of course not a return to form for The Office, it was a good example of how the series might define itself in this new Michael-less era."[10] M. Giant of Television Without Pity gave the episode a B+.[20]  After viewing "Mrs. California," Washington Post writer Hank Stuever named The Office one of the ten best TV shows of 2011 and said that the episode proved the series could still deliver cringe humor without Carell.[21] Multiple critics complimented the cold open to the episode.[9][19]


"The Convention" is the second episode of the third season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's thirtieth episode overall. The episode was written by Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg, and directed by Ken Whittingham. It first aired on September 28, 2006 on NBC in the United States.
In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) from the Scranton branch of Dunder Mifflin, as well as Josh Porter (Charles Esten) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) from the Stamford branch, leave for Philadelphia for the annual office supply convention. Michael, angry at both Jim for leaving the Scranton branch, as well as Josh for being superior to him, tries to one-up Josh at every opportunity. Meanwhile, Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) sets up Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) on a double date with her neighbor which goes nowhere. Toby Flenderson's (Paul Lieberstein) interest in Pam is piqued, beginning an unrequited crush on his part.
The first draft of the script included a scene suggesting that Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) was pregnant with Dwight's child, but this was cut by showrunner Greg Daniels. Initially, there were plans for the cast members from the British version of The Office to appear in this episode, but due to scheduling conflicts, this fell through. The episode was seen by an estimated 7.8 million viewers according to Nielsen Media Research. It was received generally well by critics.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) from the Scranton branch of Dunder Mifflin, Josh Porter (Charles Esten) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), recently transferred, from the Stamford branch, and Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) from the corporate headquarters all descend upon Philadelphia for the annual office supply convention. However, Michael is bitter that Jim left Scranton for Stamford and tries to one-up Josh at every opportunity. Michael also spreads the word that he is throwing a party in his hotel room that night. Later in the evening, Michael surprises everyone with the news that he has broken Staples' exclusive hold on Hammermill products. Meanwhile, Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) follows after Dwight wanting to spend time with him and waits in his hotel room. While hoping to prank Dwight, Jim acquires a key to his hotel room. Upon opening the door, he hears and sees Angela without realizing it is her; Jim instead thinks it's a hooker Dwight ordered, gleefully pondering who to tell.
Back in Scranton, Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling) sets Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) up on a double date with her neighbor Alan (Robert Bagnell), a cartoonist for the local newspaper. However, Kelly is quietly disappointed that Pam intends to wear just her normal work clothes to the date. On the double date, Kelly appears to be the only one having a good time with Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak), who is annoyed by Kelly force feeding him french fries. Pam awkwardly chats with Alan, who at one point sneaks a peek down Pam's shirt; they fail to hit it off. At Michael's party, Jim attends as the only guest and explains that he did not leave Scranton because of Michael (whom Jim claims is a great boss), but rather because of Pam, who rejected Jim (twice); Michael promises Jim that he will talk to Pam about the situation, but Jim tells him not to. Finally, the two mend their friendship just as two other guests arrive.
"The Convention" was the fourth episode of the series written by the writing team of Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg, and the third episode of the series directed by Ken Whittingham.[1] This episode originally had a scene with Angela and Dwight in the office kitchen. Producer Greg Daniels stated: "They had a couple lines, there was a pause, and then Angela said, 'I'm late,' turned around, and left." This would imply that she may be pregnant. The scene was cut because Daniels ultimately concluded, "It was a big move, but we had it in a show that had a lot of other big moves. ... I mean, you don't introduce a C plotline of an illicit office romance and then all of a sudden have one of the characters get knocked up!"[2]
Greg Daniels, executive producer and showrunner of The Office, had hoped to get Mackenzie Crook, Martin Freeman, and Lucy Davis from the original British Office series to appear in the episode as their respective characters (Gareth Keenan, Tim Canterbury, and Dawn Tinsley), but he was unsuccessful due to scheduling conflicts.[3][4]
The third season DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from the episode, including Michael unsuccessfully inviting Ryan to attend the convention, Michael reminiscing on being abandoned by Todd Packer at a club and being attacked by bouncers, Michael telling Dwight he almost worked at a local factory, Dwight asking Josh if he has ever been convicted of a felony, Dwight asking Josh about his experiences in the Coast Guard and in Israel, and Dwight leaving Michael to go see Angela.[5]
"The Convention" received a 3.8/10 in the Nielsen ratings among persons aged 18–49, meaning that 3.8 percent of all people aged 18–49 watched the episode, and ten percent of all people in the age group watching TV at the time watched the episode. It received an estimated audience of 7.8 million viewers overall, and ranked #1 in its time period among men 18–34.[6]
The episode was received generally well by critics. Abby West, of Entertainment Weekly, praised the interactions between characters as some of the highlights of the episode, stating "Jim is the show's salt — he makes everyone else seem just a little better. He's the perfect straight man to showcase Michael's insanity".[7] Brian Zoromski of IGN stated that:
Any episode that places Michael and Dwight outside of their normal office environment is set up for some very funny (and usually awkward) situations and "The Convention" is no exception. Some of the episode's best uncomfortable moments centered on Michael believing he's the life of the party and that he's Jim's friend. Michael and Dwight pretending to laugh along to an inside joke made by Jim's new boss, Josh, is a prime example. Michael's comment, "I love inside jokes. Love to be part of one someday," creates the kind of uncomfortable silence that The Office excels at.[8]Erik Adams of The A.V. Club awarded the episode a "B", writing that along with "Gay Witch Hunt", this episode is evident that Jim's transfer to Stamford "disrupts 'some of the show's best character pairings'".[9] He argues that, while this episode exists little more than a way for Michael and Jim to repair their friendship, the interaction between Carell and Krasinski at the episode's conclusion is worthy of applause. Adams also suggests that the episode's main theme is one of isolation, pointing out that both Dwight and Michael feel alone and cut-off from others even in the midst of a massive convention, and that Pam feels "marooned" back in Scranton. These feelings feed into the main themes of season three, which, according to Adams, are "distance, separation, and reunion".[9]


"Andy's Ancestry" is the third episode of the ninth season of the American comedy television series The Office. The episode originally aired on NBC on October 4, 2012.[1] The episode was written by Jonathan Green and Gabe Miller, and was directed by David Rogers. The episode guest stars Randall Park as Jim and Pam's actor friend, Steve.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) brags about his discovery that he is related to First Lady Michelle Obama. Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) finds his new job as Assistant Regional Manager difficult. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) attempts to teach Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) the Dothraki language from HBO series Game of Thrones so that she can impress Andy's educated family. Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) tells Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) that Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) may be having an affair; meanwhile, Jim reveals his entrepreneurial plans to Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) in the warehouse.
"Andy's Ancestry" received moderately positive reviews from television critics. Many felt that the emotional elements in the episode were effective and that the cold opening was particularly humorous, and noted that the episode bore stylistic similarities to early episodes of the show. Some, however, were slightly disappointed by the episode's various subplots. "Andy's Ancestry" was viewed by 4.14 million viewers and received a 2.2 rating among adults between the age of 18 and 49. The episode ranked fourth in its timeslot and was also the highest-rated NBC series of the night.
In the cold open, an Asian man (Randall Park) arrives at the office and sits at Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) desk, saying good morning to Dwight. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), not knowing the man, asks who he is. The man claims to be the real Jim, and offers proof: he is able to recall his last sales, he knows his voicemail password, he kisses Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer), and he has a picture of Pam and himself and their two half-Asian children. Dwight is confused, but Pam explains in a talking head that Jim is at the dentist, and that the man is an actor friend of Jim and Pam's named Steve.
Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) demands that Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) research his family tree. To spite him, she falsely tells him that he is related to U.S. First Lady Michelle Obama. He begins to brag about his discovery, which causes his co-workers to wonder if Andy's family ever owned slaves. In order to get back at his co-workers, Andy asks Nellie to "dig up dirt" on the rest of the office. In turn, she and Pam make up more fake facts as a prank. Jim realizes this prank when Andy "reveals" Jim is related to Richard Nixon, an inside joke between Jim and Pam. It is later revealed by Andy's mother that the Bernards never owned slaves: they simply transported them.
Pam has been helping Nellie practice for a driving test. The two bond after Nellie shows appreciation for Pam's art. After telling her that she is worried that her husband Jim is not telling her something, Nellie immediately states that Jim is probably having an affair, a nod to Nellie's former partner and the cause of their breakup. Nellie later asks Pam to paint a mural in the warehouse.
Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson) has been promoted to Assistant Regional Manager and as a result is inspired to find ways to be more productive, for himself and the office. However, his ideas for the office are ignored by Andy, leading to a discussion with Jim in the warehouse about their increasing dissatisfaction with Dunder Mifflin. Jim tells Darryl about his sports marketing job opportunity in Philadelphia and offers him a possible position. However, as Jim has yet to tell Pam, Darryl says he should before going forward. When Pam comes back, Jim reveals the job opportunity to Pam, who, despite giving her approval, is upset that Jim did not consult her beforehand.
Dwight attempts to teach Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) the Dothraki language from the HBO series Game of Thrones so that she can impress Andy's educated family, with Erin being unaware that it is a fictional language. Andy, however, points this out, leaving Erin dejected. However, as the office leaves for the day, Pete Miller (Jake Lacy) gives Erin a Dothraki farewell.
"Andy's Ancestry" was written by co-executive producers Jonathan Green and Gabe Miller, making it their first joint writing credit for the series. The episode was directed by series editor David Rogers.[2] This was Roger's seventh directing credit for the series, he previously directed the seventh season entry "Ultimatum".[3] The episode guest stars Randall Park as Jim and Pam's actor friend.[2] After the release of the episode's plot synopsis, Geni.com, a genealogy and social networking website, claimed that Ed Helms is in fact Michelle Obama's 18th cousin once removed.[4] The NBC website later produced the "real" Bernard family tree after the release of the full episode.[5]
Dwight attempts to teach the Dothraki language from the popular book series A Song of Ice and Fire  by George R. R. Martin. The books had also been turned into the HBO fantasy series Game of Thrones.[6] Dwight later compares learning Dothraki to learning Klingon, a fictional language from franchise Star Trek.[7] Andy refers to Ladysmith Black Mambazo as "Ladysmith African-American Mambazo" in an attempt to prove he is not racist. Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) later changes Andy's ringtone to the song "Dixie".[8]
After Andy asks her to find information regarding the relatives of the office members, Nellie intentionally lies and tells Andy that Kevin is related to John Wayne Gacy and John Wayne Bobbitt.[6] He is disappointed to learn that he is not related to either John Wayne or Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson, whom he erroneously calls "Wayne".[9] Andy also informs the office that Jim is related to former president Richard Nixon and that Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) is related to infamous axe-murder suspect Lizzie Borden.[6] Before he realizes that all of the office members' ancestors are fakes, Dwight admits that his were members of the German American Bund, a pro-Nazi group in the 1930s.[10]
"Andy's Ancestry" originally aired on NBC on October 4, 2012.[1] The episode was viewed by 4.14 million viewers and received a 2.2/6 percent share in the 18–49 demographic.[11] This means that it was seen by 2.2 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.[11] The episode marked a slight increase when compared to the previous episode, "Roy's Wedding".[11][12] The Office finished fourth in its time slot, being beaten by an episode of the ABC series Grey's Anatomy which received a 3.8/10 percent rating; an entry of the CBS drama Person of Interest, which received a 3.0/8 percent rating; and an installment Fox series Glee, which received a 2.6/7 percent rating.[11] Despite this, The Office was the highest-rated NBC television program of the night.[11]
Erik Adams of The A.V. Club gave the episode a moderately positive review and awarded it a "B". Adams highlighted the serious discussion between Darryl and Jim in the warehouse, noting that "Jim's extrication is something to root for", and that it honored "Craig Robinson's dedication to the show". While feeling that some of the episode's subplots were forced, he complimented the Pam and Nellie pairing due to "Pam's past ability to break through [people like] Angela and Dwight's defenses".[13] Bonnie Stiernberg of Paste magazine noted that, despite Andy's regression to "his old ways", it was beneficial for the episode and allowed for many jokes to be played out. Furthermore, Stiernberg applauded the subtle drama that ran throughout the entry, writing Darryl, Erin, and Pete's interactions with Andy were important to the overall storyline.[8] Mark Trammell of TV Equals named it "the best episode of the final season of The Office to date" because it "played to the show's strengths". Furthermore, he complimented the character development of Nellie, writing that she "really started to grow on me this week" and that his favorite line was Darryl's "words of wisdom" to Jim: "It's not real until your wife is on board."[14] Michael Tedder of New York magazine gave the episode a positive review and noted that "It's been a while since The Office was this surprising and moving." He wrote that the main plot allowed for "overdue development" in regards to other characters and applauded the continued drama involving Pam and Jim; he called the last shot "quietly heartbreaking". He did, however, call it a "particularly overstuffed episode", and felt that Erin's subplot should have been moved to a different episode in the season.[15]
E! Online called Pete "especially charming" after "Andy's Ancestry", and named him one of the "Best Things in Pop Culture".[16] Joseph Kratzer of WhatCulture! awarded the episode four out of five stars and said "The triumphant return of The Office continues with another enjoyable episode." He explained that the success of the first episodes of the ninth season "comes from a fluidity not seen in recent years, an organic component that helped make the series such a success in its second and third seasons". He argued it was not "the tightest plotted episode" but that it was "better than 90% of last season".[17] IGN writer Cindy White awarded the episode an 8.2, designating a "great" episode. She applauded the fact that "the show is returning to its roots" as well as the fact that the actors themselves "seem more invested" in the series. She also called the conversation between Darryl and Jim a "nice change of pace". She concluded that the plot allowed for a "good source of laughs in the smartly written" episode.[9]
Dan Forcella of TV Fanatic awarded the episode three and a half stars out of five and called it "another decent episode". He wrote that Pam and Nellie's bonding was the subplot that "worked best".[10] Nick Campbell of TV.com wrote that "the writers [are] trying to shove Andy Bernard in a Michael Scott-shaped hole." Furthermore, he called Nellie "the greatest square peg of them all."[18] Brett Harrison Davinger of the California Literary Review, despite enjoying the tension between Pam and Jim, felt that the main story never went anywhere. He called the main action of the episode "lifeless", but wrote that the entry as a whole set up the conclusion of the series. Davinger also applauded Darryl's sound byte call back.[6]
The episode's cold open attracted particular praise. Adams called it a "killer cold open".[13] Stierngerg referred to the sequence as "one of the funniest in a long time".[8] Kratzer called Steve's remark to Dwight about "not seeing race" one of his "favorite moments" from the episode.[17] Forcella called it "hilarious" and "one of the best openings we've seen in a long, long time."[10] Trammell called the prank "classic Office".[14]


"Niagara" is a two-part episode of the sixth season of the American comedy series The Office. It is the 4th and 5th episodes in the season's episode count and the 104th and 105th episode of the series overall. The episode was written by executive producer Greg Daniels and Mindy Kaling, and was directed by Paul Feig. It originally aired on October 8, 2009 on NBC in the United States.
The episode revolves around the wedding of Jim and Pam at Niagara Falls. Not all goes smoothly when Jim accidentally reveals Pam's pregnancy to all the guests, including Pam's very old-fashioned grandmother, and Andy injures his scrotum while dancing. Meanwhile, Michael and Dwight both try to hook up with women, with mixed results.
The episode was met with positive reviews from critics and fans. Although not all television critics reacted positively to Andy's dancing injury sub-plot, "Niagara" has nonetheless come to be considered a classic episode of the series. In a poll conducted by OfficeTally at the end of season six, the episode was named the second best episode of the series after the second-season finale, "Casino Night." The episode was viewed by 9.42 million households with a 4.8 rating/12% share in the 18–49 demographic making it the second highest viewed episode of the season after "The Delivery."
Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) head up to Niagara Falls for their wedding and the rest of the office follows them. Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) seek women to hook up with while Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) pursues Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper). Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) and Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nunez) meet Pam's sister Penny (Anna Camp), who accidentally offends Oscar by thinking Kevin was his boyfriend Gil. Pam's mother Helene (Linda Purl) is visibly disturbed at the fact that Pam's father and Helene's ex-husband, William (Rick Overton) has come to the wedding with his new girlfriend who is half his own age.
Pam's grandmother, "Meemaw", or "Sylvia", (played by Peggy Stewart), is a woman of conservative morals, so everyone is told not to mention Pam's pregnancy. At the rehearsal dinner, Jim gives a moving toast to his soon-to-be wife. However, he finishes by saying that everyone but Pam will drink to the toast "for obvious reasons". Meemaw questions this remark, and after fumbling through several weak excuses Jim finally admits that Pam is pregnant. Michael tries to fix the issue by saying they had "lots of consensual sex" but Meemaw remains offended. Meemaw then decides not to attend the wedding out of moral outrage. Michael later visits Meemaw in her hotel room. Despite his indelicate approach to the subject of sex, he establishes an instant rapport with Meemaw and convinces her to attend the wedding.
Andy hosts a dance party in his room later that night, with the office staff attending. Andy punctures his scrotum trying to do a split. The guests rouse Pam, the only sober person, to take him to the hospital. Pam reluctantly agrees, but Andy still whines throughout the drive to the hospital.
Michael and Dwight try their luck with women at the bar. Dwight, by using sexual innuendo, is successful in getting Pam's friend Isabel (Kelen Coleman) to spend the night with him. Michael spends the night alone in the ice machine room, having thought the "room block" at the hotel meant pre-reserved rooms for the wedding guests and not a bulk discounted room rate and thus failed to make a reservation in advance, and couldn't convince anyone else to let him room with them; Dwight, because he failed an honesty test, Stanley, because he brought his mistress and just plain refused, while Toby willingly offered but Michael disgustedly rejected immediately.
Prior to the ceremony, Pam accidentally tears her veil and tearfully phones Jim. They meet in private, where Pam expresses shame at her appearance due to being pregnant. Pam is visibly uplifted when Jim cuts his tie in half in an effort to console her, and says she regrets inviting their families and the office staff. They run away from the church together.
While everyone in the church wonders where they went, Michael and Helene begin to bond over their failed relationships. Dwight callously rebuffs Isabel's attempts at further contact. The rest of the office staff grow impatient, bickering about their right to take their gifts back.
Jim and Pam finally return to the church after an hour with no explanation of their absence, and the ceremony begins. The guests interrupt the ceremony by recreating the dance routines featured in the JK Wedding Entrance Dance. Jim and Pam react with uncharacteristic good humor, having already been married on board the Maid of the Mist IV ferry boat by the ship's captain, below the falls. Jim explains to the camera that he had prepared the ferry marriage in advance after seeing the video, predicting the guests might imitate it.
When Kevin leaves his only pair of shoes in the care of hotel staff, the management decides to incinerate them as a health hazard, and he replaces them with Kleenex tissue boxes. The end of the episode shows Kevin soothing his feet in the ice machine. While he speaks to the camera crew, Helene is seen pulling Michael into her hotel room.
The episode was written by Greg Daniels and Mindy Kaling, who plays Kelly Kapoor on the show, and directed by Paul Feig, his 13th directing credit for the series.[1] The episode was initially assigned to Kaling, but Daniels said he was interested in contributing.[2] The scene in which Jim cuts his tie off took seven takes.[3]
The dance down the church aisle to Chris Brown's "Forever" is based on the popular 2009 YouTube viral video, "JK Wedding Entrance Dance",[4] in which a young couple (JK, standing for "Jill and Kevin") dance down the aisle to the song along with their wedding party. Pam mentions that the song was specifically put on a "Do Not Play List", but was choreographed by the wedding guests and office workers regardless. The song played during Andy's party is Kardinal Offishall's "Numba 1 (Tide is High)" featuring Rihanna. Dwight is shown wearing the Three Wolf Moon T-shirt, made famous by humorous reviews on Amazon, before going out to the hotel bar with Michael to pick up women, commenting that "it's suggestive to women, because of howling during sex."[5]
In its original American broadcast, "Niagara" was viewed by an estimated 9.42 million households, with a 4.8 rating and a 12 share in the 18–49 demographic coming second in its timeslot after Grey's Anatomy.[6] Greg Daniels and Mindy Kaling received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series for their work on "Niagara" at the 62nd Primetime Emmy Awards, but lost to Modern Family's Steven Levitan and Christopher Lloyd for their work on the pilot episode.[7]
The episode received positive reviews from critics. The episode ranked 24th on BuddyTV's list of best 50 episodes of 2009 with them saying "It wasn't easy, but they did it all, creating a goofy, joyful, and special day for Jim and Pam that brought tears to our eyes."[8] Dan Phillips of IGN gave the episode an 8.3 saying calling it "Impressive" and "The episode certainly could have delivered more in terms of creativity and high comedy, but it still contained a great deal of entertainment."[9] Despite that, he said the episode failed in comparison to "Phyllis' Wedding".[9] Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club gave  the episode a B.[10] "Niagara" was voted the second highest rated out of 115 from the series through season six, according to a poll at the fansite OfficeTally.[11]

"Michael's Birthday" is the nineteenth episode of the second season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's twenty-fifth episode overall. Written by Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg, and directed by Ken Whittingham, the episode first aired in the United States on March 30, 2006 on NBC. The episode guest stars Nancy Carell as Carol Stills.
The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company.  In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is disappointed when only Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) celebrates his birthday. Meanwhile, Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner) spends the day waiting to find out if he has skin cancer.
The ice skating scenes were shot in an actual rink; Carell's talent at hockey was the reason the writers decided to set the episode there. Fischer had also learned to skate in preparation for the movie Blades of Glory, but the writers decided that there was no reason for Pam to be a good skater, so they had Pam lean on Jim. "Michael's Birthday" was watched by 7.8 million viewers and received mostly positive reviews from critics.
Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is excited to be celebrating his birthday, and tries to get the employees excited with him. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) is the only one to join in; the rest of the employees are more concerned about Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), who is awaiting results from his skin cancer screening. Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) sneak out to buy gifts for Kevin to cheer him up. After goofing around at the store, Jim and Pam return to the office.
When Michael finds out about Kevin's predicament, he gives Kevin his condolences, but is bitter that his birthday fun is ruined. Dwight and Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) are less subtle than they think they are being when discussing their secret relationship within earshot of Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak).
In an attempt to make Kevin feel better and celebrate his birthday, Michael takes the employees out ice skating. At the rink, he runs into his real estate agent Carol Stills (Nancy Carell) and her children. He entertains them, which makes Carol smile. Kevin gets the word that his screening results are negative, to the relief of everyone except Michael, who believes that negative means he has cancer, and reacts for the first time with genuine concern and compassion for Kevin. Gifts are passed out to Kevin and Michael. Pam says in an interview that Michael's birthday "was a good day", and appears to struggle to come up with an explanation for why it was good. The documentary crew suggestively intercuts this with footage of her shopping with Jim.
This episode was the second episode of the series directed by Ken Whittingham.[2] Whittingham had previously directed the first season episode "Health Care".[3] "Michael's Birthday" was written by Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg.[2] The two had previously written the episodes "The Fight" and "The Secret".[4]
The ice skating scenes were shot in an actual rink. According to Jenna Fischer, Steve Carell used to play hockey, and the writers had been looking for a reason to use Carell's ice skating skills in an episode. Fischer had also learned to skate in preparation for the movie Blades of Glory, but the writers decided that there was no reason for Pam to be a good skater, so they had Pam lean on Jim.[4] Saturday Night Live alumna Nancy Carell, who played Carol Stills, is actually Steve Carell's wife.[5] At the rink, Michael tells Pam to be wary of breast cancer. This is the third joke that Stupnitsky and Eisenberg had aimed at Pam's breasts, after one each in "The Fight" and "The Secret". Fischer later jokingly said that "my breasts play a central role in one of tonight's scenes."[4] Fischer also noted that, due to the slight emphasis her breasts were receiving, many fans on the internet were arguing that Fischer had breast implants. Fischer denied the rumors, but stated that she was "flattered".[4]
The Season Two DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include Jim describing Michael's typical birthday, Dwight explaining his duties on Michael's birthday, Michael being upset when Ryan does not get him a present, Michael telling several variations of his worst birthday, and Michael making Ryan research skin cancer.[6]
The cold opening features Michael trying to get various members of the office involved in a pyramid scheme, which is a non-sustainable business model that involves promising participants payment or services, primarily for enrolling other people into the scheme, rather than supplying any real investment or sale of products or services to the public. The scheme is generally considered one of various internet scams.[7]
Michael notes that he shares his birthday with Eva Longoria, and that it will be a perfect icebreaker if he ever meets Teri Hatcher. After Michael asks what Dwight is playing on the recorder, Dwight replies that it is "For The Longest Time", by "William Joel" (Billy Joel released "The Longest Time" in 1984).  When Kevin mentions he might have skin cancer, Kelly starts discussing a case involving cancer on the popular medical drama Grey's Anatomy. She later says that the saddest funeral she ever saw was the one for Princess Diana. For Michael's birthday, his mother sent him a picture of James Dean. Resignedly, Michael notes that "I bet Luke Perry's friends don't treat him like this".[7] While at the drug store, Jim and Pam buy a copy of the American comedy movie American Pie 2. Pam later impersonates Darth Vader, a character from the science fiction movie franchise Star Wars, on the store's intercom. To show his support for Kevin, Michael makes a fake Livestrong wristband out of yellow Post-it notes. Dwight later gives Michael a Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins jersey with the words "From Dwight" on the back.[7]
"Michael's Birthday" originally aired on NBC in the United States on March 30, 2006.[8] "Michael's Birthday" received 4.0/10 in the ages 18–49 demographic in the Nielsen ratings. This means that 4.0 percent of all households with an 18- to 49-year-old living in it watched the episode, and ten percent had their television tuned to the channel at any point. "Michael's Birthday" was watched by 7.8 million viewers.[9]
"Michael's Birthday" received very positive reviews. Michael Sciannamea of TV Squad wrote that the episode was "simply the best one yet", and that it "was so brilliant and so right on that I can't give it any higher praise".[10] Sciannamea went on to write that "the scenes at the ice rink were hysterical" and The Office "is the best sitcom on TV".[10] M. Giant of Television Without Pity graded the episode with an "A".[7] Lindsey Thomas of Rolling Stone magazine named the scene wherein Michael confuses the term "negative" to mean that Kevin has skin cancer as the seventeenth greatest moment in the series.[11] Brendan Babish of DVD Verdict was moderately pleased with the entry and awarded it a "B+".[12] He called the entry a "good episode", but noted that it was helped by "great supporting work from Dwight", who he called "as not only the best supporting character on the show, but perhaps the best in television."[12]



"Fun Run" is the first and second episode of the fourth season of the American comedy television series The Office and the show's fifty-fourth and fifty-fifth episode overall. Written and directed by executive producer and showrunner Greg Daniels, the episode first aired on NBC in the United States on September 27, 2007.[1]
In the episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) believes the office is cursed after he accidentally hits Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) with his car. After being taken to the hospital, Meredith is found to have possibly been exposed to rabies. In an attempt to make amends with Meredith, Michael sponsors a fun run for rabies. Meanwhile, it is revealed that Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) are dating, while Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) is mad at Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) for killing her cat Sprinkles.
The episodes received mixed reviews from the varying critics, while most praised the episode for Jim and Pam's relationship. However, critics had differing opinions when it came to how Michael behaved throughout the episode.
Over the summer, Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) moved in with Michael Scott (Steve Carell); Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) started his new job at Corporate; and Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) broke up with Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones), who left Dunder Mifflin Scranton. Jim and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) claim that they see each other socially but only as friends. The documentary crew catches Pam picking up Jim in her car. They kiss and drive away. When faced with the footage of them kissing, Jim and Pam admit to the documentary crew that they are secretly dating.
As he arrives at work, Michael accidentally hits Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery) with his car, sending her to the hospital for a fractured pelvis. Forced to join a group visit to Meredith in the hospital, Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) leaves Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) with complicated instructions on the care of her ailing cat, Sprinkles. During the hospital visit, Michael fails to obtain forgiveness from Meredith. When Angela returns to the office, Dwight informs her that her cat is dead, explaining that he killed her cat because it was suffering and because this is normal on the farm. Angela is furious because, according to her, being euthanized prevents Sprinkles from being in "cat heaven".
The combination of Meredith's accident, Sprinkles' death, and a virus on Pam's computer (which is cleaned by the company's tech support employee, Sadiq, portrayed by Omi Vaidya) convinces Michael that the office is cursed. Dwight discovers that Meredith has had a precautionary rabies shot due to bat bites that she received in "Business School". Michael immediately takes credit for saving Meredith's life by sending her to the hospital and declares the curse over. However, still feeling guilty about hurting Meredith, Michael organizes a charity five-kilometer (3.1 mile) fun run to raise awareness of the dangers of rabies. Over half of the money raised is spent on the check presentation ceremony. Whilst Michael is getting changed for the race, Pam sees him naked. Few take the race seriously: Creed, Oscar and Stanley sneak off to a bar; Jim and Pam visit a garage sale; however, Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein) finishes first. Michael becomes ill, having "carbo-loaded", as he ate fettuccine Alfredo before the race and abstained from water. In the hospital for dehydration, Michael is visited by Meredith. In recognition of his efforts, she forgives him, and they share a lollipop.
"Fun Run" was the eighth episode of the series written by Greg Daniels and ninth episode directed by him.[2] The episode was the second of the series in which Daniels was both the writer and director. Daniels also wrote and directed the first season episode "Basketball".
After initially reading the script, Kate Flannery asked producer Kent Zbornak if Meredith was going to live, to which he replied "This isn't All My Children." Flannery was nervous about doing her own stunt, so Zbornak did it first to show her that she would be fine. Flannery recalls "[I] kind of got competitive with him, and I thought, 'I can do that. I can do that better than he can.'" At first, Flannery would flinch before hitting the glass, until director Greg Daniels was able to get her to not think about it.[3] Flannery's arms were bruised, due to having to film the scene multiple times. During the hospital scenes, Flannery and Steve Carell improvised a few times.[4]
The episodes received mixed reviews. Pam and Jim finally getting together went over well with most critics. Zap2It's Rick Porter thought "the show handled the PB&J (Pam Beesly and Jim) stuff as well as it always has, underplaying the romance as much as the NBC marketing folks overplay it."[5] Although Christine Fenno from Entertainment Weekly was happy about Pam and Jim finally dating, she criticized their secrecy as too small of an obstacle for the arc.[6] TV Guide's Jack Rodgers was glad "the writers aren't jerking us around anymore, and the pair are finally busted when Jim hops a ride home with Pam after work".[7]
Reviews for Michael in this episode were a little bit more mixed. Rick Porter said that "there was a little too much Bad Michael in the hour for my taste".[5] Travis Fickett of IGN disagreed, saying that "the best stuff in the episode comes from Steve Carell. There's his reaction to hitting Meredith, how he breaks it to the office, and his fear that the office is cursed."[8] Will Leitch, a writer for New York, said that Michael hitting Meredith with his car was "one of the most shocking moments in the show’s history" and "nothing that came afterwards could quite top what happened in the first 25 seconds".[9]




The Office is an American television sitcom broadcast on NBC. Created as an adaptation by Greg Daniels of the British series of the same name, it is a mockumentary that follows the day-to-day lives of the employees of the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of Dunder Mifflin, a fictional paper supply company.[1] The series ran on NBC in the United States from March 24, 2005, to May 16, 2013. Additionally, nine spin-off series of webisodes  of The Office have been aired on NBC.com.
The Office aired a short first season in 2005 that consisted of six episodes. This was followed by a full-length second season in 2005–06 that consisted of 22 episodes, and a third season in 2006–07, with 25 episodes. Due to the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike, the fourth season that aired in 2007–08 consisted of 19 episodes.[2]  The fifth season aired during 2008–09 and consisted of 28 episodes. The sixth season aired during 2009–10 and consisted of 26 episodes. The seventh season aired during 2010–11 and consisted of 26 episodes. The eighth season aired during 2011–12 and consisted of 24 episodes. The ninth season aired during 2012–13 and consisted of 25 episodes. A total of 201 episodes of The Office aired over nine seasons.
The first set of webisodes, titled The Accountants, consisted of ten episodes and ran between the second and third seasons. Kevin's Loan consisted of four episodes and ran between the fourth and fifth seasons. The Outburst aired in the middle of the fifth season and consisted of four episodes. Blackmail aired during the end of the fifth season and consisted of four episodes. Subtle Sexuality aired during the beginning of the sixth season and consisted of three episodes. The Mentor aired near the end of the sixth season and consisted of four episodes. The 3rd Floor aired during the beginning of the seventh season and consisted of three episodes. The Podcast aired near the middle of the seventh season (was previously available on the season 6 DVD) and consisted of three episodes. The latest webisode series, The Girl Next Door aired at the end of the seventh season and had two episodes.
All nine seasons are available on DVD in regions 1, 2, and 4. Starting with season five, the series is available on Blu-ray. This list is ordered by the episodes' original air dates and not by the production code numbers provided by NBC's official episode guide, which show the order in which episodes were filmed.[3]
After the acquisition of the series by the streaming service Peacock, extended format episodes designated "Superfan Episodes" were released beginning in 2021 exclusive to Peacock, including deleted scenes and additional footage.[4]
Season one aired between March 24 and April 26, 2005. It originally debuted as a midseason replacement for Committed.[14] It carried over general plot ideas from the earlier British series created by Stephen Merchant and Ricky Gervais, and particularly the threat of wholesale downsizing. However, only the pilot was a direct adaptation of one of the UK version's episodes.[15]
This season introduced the main characters, and established the general plot as a documentary crew is recording the lives of the employees of the fictitious Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In a mockumentary format, it shows Michael Scott (Steve Carell), regional manager of the Scranton branch office, as he tries to convince the filmmakers of the documentary that he presides over a happy, well-running office. Meanwhile, sales rep Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) finds methods to undermine his cube-mate, Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson); receptionist Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) is trying to deal with Michael's insensitivities and flubs; and the temporary employee Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) is acting mostly as an observer of the insanity around him.[15]
Season two of The Office premiered on September 20, 2005, and ended on May 11, 2006.[23][24] NBC initially ordered only six episodes for the season, and in September, ordered seven more.[25] On November 3, 2005, NBC ordered an additional three,[26] and in the end it had ordered a full season of 22 episodes.[27]
The second season further developed into the plot of the fear of company downsizing, along with the introduction of new characters and developing some of the minor ones—especially that of Dwight.[28] As Michael starts a relationship with his boss Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin), Pam and Jim's relationship become one of the focal points of the season. Their compatibility becomes more obvious as Jim's feelings for Pam continue to grow, while she struggles with her relationship with the warehouse worker Roy Anderson (David Denman).
Season three premiered on September 21, 2006, and ended on May 17, 2007.[50][51] It featured 25 episodes, including two hour-long episodes, six "super-sized" episodes, and guest directors such as J. J. Abrams, Joss Whedon and Harold Ramis.[51][52]
The season marked the move of main character Jim Halpert from Scranton to Stamford, and also introduced Rashida Jones as Karen Filippelli, and Ed Helms as Andy Bernard (both members of Dunder Mifflin Stamford) as recurring characters.  Helms would later be promoted to series regular.  The main plot for the early episodes of the season deals with a recurring problem in seasons one and two—the problem of company downsizing—while in the latter half of the season, inter-office relationships also became a major plot point.[53] Metacritic, which assigns normalized ratings out of 100 to critics' reviews, calculated an average score of 85/100 based on five collected reviews, indicating "universal acclaim".[54]
NBC ordered a full fourth season of The Office consisting of 30 episodes, which included five one-hour specials.  However, the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike shut down production for nearly five months in the middle of the season (between the episodes "The Deposition" and "Dinner Party").[2][77] Because of the shutdown, the fourth season of The Office only consisted of 19 half-hour episodes, ten of which were paired as five hour-long episodes. The season premiered on September 27, 2007.
Season four marked the departure of Karen Filippelli as a regular character, although she appeared for a few seconds in the first episode, "Fun Run"; and was featured as the regional manager of the Utica branch in the sixth episode, "Branch Wars". Relationships emerged as the main theme of the season, with Jim and Pam's and Michael and Jan's rising, as well as Dwight and Angela's declining.[78]  Technology was another theme as the office staff struggled with initiatives introduced by Ryan to modernize the company.[79]
On April 10, 2008, NBC ordered a fifth season consisting of 28 half-hour episodes,[93] four of which were paired as two hour-long episodes. The season premiered on September 25, 2008.[94]
This season highlighted Michael's roller coaster relationship with corporate, as he is first praised and rewarded for impressive numbers despite the economic downturn. However, when a new boss is hired Michael feels slighted by his controlling manner.  The theme of the beginning and middle of the season was mostly personal relationships with Dwight, Angela, Andy, Jim, Pam, Michael, Jan, and Holly. However, the theme transformed into career growth, as Ryan, Pam, and Michael set up the Michael Scott Paper Company, Pam and Michael go on a lecture circuit, Charles takes Jan's and Ryan's job, and Jim has trouble getting on with Charles.  The last few episodes of the season focused on relationships once again, with major events taking place in Jim and Pam's relationship, and also with Holly and Michael.
On January 15, 2009, it was announced that NBC renewed the series for a sixth season, consisting of 26 half-hour episodes,[120] four of which were paired as two hour-long episodes. The season premiered on September 17, 2009.[121]
Story arcs in the sixth season include Jim becoming co-manager with Michael of the Scranton branch, Michael dating Pam's mother, Dwight attempting to get Jim fired, and Dunder Mifflin facing an uncertain future due to rumors of insolvency, eventually becoming part of a larger corporation called Sabre. The season also prominently features the long-awaited wedding between Jim and Pam, as well as the birth of their first child.
On March 5, 2010, NBC officially announced that it had renewed The Office for a seventh season, consisting of 26 half-hour episodes, four of which were paired as two hour-long episodes.[146][147] Steve Carell confirmed the season would be his last on the series.[148] The season premiered on September 23, 2010.[149]
The seventh season of The Office largely revolves around the character development and departure of Michael from the series. After Toby is called for jury duty, Holly returns, causing Michael to once again pursue her, despite her being in a relationship. After eventually proving himself to her, the two get engaged, but Michael decides to move to Boulder, Colorado to help Holly take care of her elderly parents. After Michael leaves, the office is forced to choose a new manager.
On March 17, 2011, NBC renewed The Office for an eighth season,[174] consisting of 24 episodes. This season focuses on Andy Bernard becoming manager of the Scranton branch, before being replaced as manager by Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) midway through the season. James Spader also became a regular cast member, playing the role of Robert California, the new CEO of Sabre. Also, Jim and Pam welcome their second child.
The eighth season of The Office largely centers around the antics of the new Sabre CEO, Robert California. Initially, he appears calm, collected, and calculating. However, as the season progresses, it becomes obvious that his management style is slowly destroying the company. Dwight—along with Jim, Stanley, Ryan, Erin, and Cathy (Lindsey Broad)—travel to Florida to help set up a Sabre Store, where Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) is introduced. Eventually, former CFO of Dunder Mifflin David Wallace buys back the company, firing California.
On May 11, 2012, NBC renewed The Office for a ninth season,[199] which was later announced to be the final season.[200] The season consists of 25 episodes.[201]
The ninth season largely focuses on the relationship between Jim and Pam Halpert. After Jim decides to follow his dream and start a sports marketing company in Philadelphia, Pam begins to worry about moving, and the couple's relationship experiences stress. Meanwhile, Andy abandons the office for a three-month boating trip, and eventually quits his job to pursue his dream of becoming a star. Dwight is then promoted to regional manager.
NBC announced on March 16, 2006, that there would be ten original, stand-alone webisode shorts on NBC.com.  They debuted on July 13, and concluded on September 7, 2006.[225] They were directed by Randall Einhorn and written by Michael Schur and Paul Lieberstein, and were edited by Michael Zurer, an assistant editor on the series. It took two days to film them,[226] and in June 2007, The Accountants won the Comedy Short Award at the inaugural Webby Awards and  a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Broadband Program – Comedy.[227]  In November 2007, the webisodes became a point of argument for the Writers Guild of America for the 2007 strike, as none of the writers or actors featured in the webisodes were paid residuals for their participation.[228]
Major characters Michael, Jim and Pam do not appear in The Accountants webisodes. Instead, the focus is on the three members of the accounting department: Oscar, Angela and Kevin—who appear in each webisode—as they try to find $3000 missing from the office budget. The series won an Emmy Award in the "Outstanding Broadband Program – Comedy" category at the 34th Daytime Emmy Awards in 2007. Tim Stack of Entertainment Weekly graded the series with an "A−" and wrote, "While we miss Jim and Pam (not to mention star Steve Carell), these shorts prove that spending time with their excessively awkward co-workers can be just as sweet."[229]
NBC ordered a new set of webisodes for the summer of 2008.  The webisode series began its run on July 10, 2008, and ended on July 31, 2008. The webisodes feature Kevin, who pursues a unique solution in an effort to pay back his looming gambling debts. The other characters who appeared are Oscar, Stanley and Darryl.[230]
NBC ordered a new set of webisodes for the winter of 2008.  The webisode series began its run on November 20, 2008. The webisodes feature all of The Office characters except for Michael, Pam, Jim, Dwight and Ryan. Oscar has an outburst in the middle of the office and his coworkers start an investigation.[231]
Creed decides to take up blackmail, and attempts to get money out of Oscar, Andy, Kelly, Angela, and Meredith.
Kelly and Erin form their own girl group, Subtle Sexuality, and get Ryan and Andy to assist them with their first music video, "Male Prima Donna".
Erin wants to make a career change and finds herself a mentor: Angela.[232]
Ryan attempts to make a horror film titled The 3rd Floor using Dunder Mifflin as a location, and workers such as Kelly, Erin, Gabe, Kevin and Meredith as actors. The 3rd Floor was written by Jonathan Hughes, Kelly Hannon and Mary Wall and directed by Mindy Kaling.
Gabe attempts to record a podcast in the office about the Sabre website, hoping to impress corporate. The webisodes were made available on January 20, 2011, on NBC.com, but were previously included on the season 6 DVD release.[233]
The series focuses on Kelly and Erin's girl group called Subtle Sexuality. The first webisode documents the behind-the-scenes aspects of their second single "The Girl Next Door", while the second and final webisode is the music video itself, which features Ryan. The webisodes were made available on May 4, 2011, on NBC.com.
For the ninth season, see "The Office: Season Nine Ratings". TV Series Finale. May 18, 2013. Retrieved December 14, 2017.


The Office is an American mockumentary sitcom television series that depicts the everyday work lives of office employees at the Scranton, Pennsylvania, branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. It aired on NBC from March 24, 2005, to May 16, 2013, with a total of nine seasons consisting of 201 episodes.[1] Based on the 2001–2003 BBC series of the same name created by Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant, it was adapted for American television by Greg Daniels, a veteran writer for Saturday Night Live, King of the Hill, and The Simpsons. It was co-produced by Daniels' Deedle-Dee Productions and Reveille Productions (later Shine America), in association with Universal Television. The original executive producers were Daniels, Gervais, Merchant, Howard Klein and Ben Silverman, with numerous others being promoted in later seasons.
Like its British counterpart, the series was filmed in a single-camera setup without a studio audience or a laugh track, to mirror the look of an actual documentary. It debuted on NBC as a mid-season replacement and ultimately aired 201 episodes. Its original main cast was Steve Carell, Rainn Wilson, John Krasinski, Jenna Fischer and B. J. Novak. It experienced numerous changes to its ensemble cast during its run. Notable stars outside the original main cast include Ed Helms, Rashida Jones, Amy Ryan, Mindy Kaling, Craig Robinson, James Spader, Ellie Kemper and Catherine Tate.
The Office received varied reviews during its short first season, but the following seasons, particularly Carell's performance, received significant acclaim from television critics as the show's characters, content, structure, and tone diverged considerably from the original British series. These seasons were included on several critics' year-end top TV series lists, winning several awards including a Peabody Award in 2006, two Screen Actors Guild Awards, a Golden Globe Award for Carell's performance, and four Primetime Emmy Awards, including one for Outstanding Comedy Series, in 2006. The eighth season was criticized for a decline in quality, with Carell's departure in season seven seen as a contributing factor. However, the ninth and final season ended the series with a generally positive response. The series finale, which originally aired on May 16, 2013, was viewed by an estimated 5.7 million viewers and garnered critical acclaim.[2] In 2016, Rolling Stone named The Office one of the 100 greatest television shows of all time.[3]
Greg Daniels developed the British Office series for American television and served as the showrunner for the first four seasons of the series. He then left the position when he co-created the comedy series Parks and Recreation with fellow Office writer Michael Schur and divided his time between both series.[4] Paul Lieberstein and Jennifer Celotta were named the showrunners for the fifth season.[5] Celotta left the series after the sixth season and Lieberstein stayed on as showrunner for the following two seasons. He left the showrunner spot after the eighth season for the potential Dwight Schrute spin-off, The Farm, which was eventually passed on by NBC.[6][7] Daniels returned to the showrunner position for the ninth and final season.[8] Other executive producers include cast members B. J. Novak and Mindy Kaling.[9][10] Kaling, Novak, Daniels, Lieberstein and Schur made up the original team of writers.[11] Kaling, Novak, and Lieberstein also served multiple roles on the series, as they played regular characters on the show, as well as wrote, directed, and produced episodes.[12] Credited with twenty-four episodes, Kaling is the most prolific writer among the staff.[12] Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant, who created the original British series, are credited as executive producers and wrote both pilot and the third-season episode "The Convict".[13] Merchant later directed the episode "Customer Survey", while Gervais appeared in the episodes "The Seminar" and "Search Committee", reprising his role as David Brent from the British series.[14][15]
Randall Einhorn is the most frequent director of the series, with 15 credited episodes.[12] The series also had several guest directors, including Lost co-creator J. J. Abrams, Buffy the Vampire Slayer creator Joss Whedon,[16][17] both of whom are fans of the series,[18][19] and filmmakers Jon Favreau, Harold Ramis, Jason Reitman, and Marc Webb.[12] Episodes have been directed by several of the actors on the show including Steve Carell, Rainn Wilson, John Krasinski, B. J. Novak, Ed Helms, Brian Baumgartner,  Mindy Kaling and Paul Lieberstein.[12]
Prior to the second episode airing, the writers spent time conducting research in offices.[20] This process was used for Daniels' other series King of the Hill and Parks and Recreation.[20] The pilot is a direct adaptation of the first episode of the original British series.[21] Daniels chose to go this route because "completely starting from scratch would be a very risky thing to do" owing to the show being an adaptation.[21] He had briefly considered using the idea for "The Dundies" as the pilot episode.[22] After the writers knew who the cast was, they were allowed to write for the actors, which allowed the show to be more original for the following episode, "Diversity Day".[21] Following the mixed reaction toward the first season, the writers attempted to make the series more "optimistic" and to make Michael Scott more likable.[23] They also established the supporting characters of the series more, giving them relatable personalities. They also made the lights in the office brighter, which allowed the series to differentiate itself from the British series.[23]
A common issue with the scripts, according to Novak, is that they tended to run too long for the regular 22-minute time slot, leading to several cuts.[24] For example, the script for the episode "Search Committee" was initially 75 pages, which was 10 pages too long.[24] A complete script was written for each episode; however, actors were given opportunities to improvise during filming. Fischer said, "Our shows are 100 percent scripted. They put everything down on paper. But we get to play around a little bit, too. Steve and Rainn are brilliant improvisers.".[25] These improvisations led to a large number of deleted scenes with almost every episode of The Office, all of which are considered part of the show's canon and storyline by Daniels.[26] Deleted scenes have sometimes been restored in repeats to make episodes longer or draw back people who have seen the episode before to see the bonus footage. In an experiment, a deleted scene from "The Return" was made available over NBC.com and iTunes, explaining the absence of a character over the next several episodes.[26] Daniels hoped that word of mouth among fans would spread the information, but he eventually considered the experiment a failure.[26]
According to Jenna Fischer, the series used an unusual casting process that did not involve a script. For example, the producers asked the actors several questions and they responded as the characters they were auditioning for.[27] NBC programmer Kevin Reilly originally suggested Paul Giamatti to producer Ben Silverman for the role of Michael Scott, but the actor declined. Martin Short, Hank Azaria and Bob Odenkirk were reported to be interested in the part.[28]
In January 2004, Variety reported that Steve Carell, of the Comedy Central program The Daily Show with Jon Stewart, was in talks to play the role. At the time, he was already committed to another NBC midseason replacement comedy, Come to Papa,[29] but the series was quickly canceled, allowing his full commitment to The Office. Carell later said that he had only seen about half of the original pilot episode of the British series before he auditioned. He did not continue watching for fear that he would start copying Gervais' characterizations.[30] Other people who were considered or auditioned for the role included Ben Falcone, Alan Tudyk, Jim Zulevic, and Paul F. Tompkins. Rainn Wilson was cast as power-hungry sycophant Dwight Schrute, and he watched every episode of the British series before he auditioned.[31] Wilson had originally auditioned for Michael, a performance that he described as a "terrible Ricky Gervais impersonation"; however, the casting directors liked his audition as Dwight much more and hired him. Seth Rogen, Matt Besser, Patton Oswalt, and Judah Friedlander also auditioned for the role.[31] Carell was later joined by his wife Nancy Carell when she was cast to play Carol Stills, a love interest of Michael Scott. When asked what it was like working with her husband, Carell said she was intimidated at first as she had retired from acting years prior, but they had so much fun together.[32]
John Krasinski and Jenna Fischer were cast in their respective roles as Jim and Pam, the main love interests. Krasinski attended school with B. J. Novak, where the two were best friends.[33][34] Before Krasinski landed the role, he considered quitting acting. He discussed on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert that he moved to New York City and gave himself two to three years for his acting career to succeed or he would quit. He did not enjoy waiting tables and struggling to find roles, but his mom told him to wait it out until the end of the year. He booked his role in The Office just three weeks later.[35]
Fischer prepared for her audition by looking as boring as possible, creating the original Pam hairstyle.[36] In an interview on NPR's Fresh Air, she recalled the last stages of the audition process for Pam and Jim, where the producers paired up the potential Pams and Jims (four of each) to gauge their chemistry. When Fischer finished her scene with Krasinski, he told her that she was his favorite Pam, to which she reciprocated that he was her favorite Jim.[27] Adam Scott and John Cho both auditioned for the role of Jim, and Kathryn Hahn also auditioned for the role of Pam.[37]
The supporting cast includes actors known for their improv work: Angela Kinsey, Kate Flannery, Oscar Nunez, Leslie David Baker, Brian Baumgartner, Melora Hardin and David Denman.[38] Kinsey originally auditioned for Pam. The producers thought she was "too feisty" for the character, but called her back for the part of Angela Martin, which she won.[39] Flannery first auditioned for the part of Jan Levinson-Gould before landing the role of Meredith Palmer.[40]
Baumgartner originally auditioned for Stanley, but was eventually cast as Kevin.[41] Ken Kwapis, the director of the pilot episode, liked the way Phyllis Smith, a casting associate, read with other actors auditioning so much that he cast her as Phyllis.[42] At the beginning of the third season, Ed Helms and Rashida Jones joined the cast as members of Dunder Mifflin Stamford. Jones later left the cast, becoming a regular on Parks and Recreation in February 2007, and NBC announced that Helms was being promoted to a series regular.[43]
Four of the show's writers have also appeared in the show. B. J. Novak was cast as the reluctant temp Ryan Howard after Daniels saw his stand-up act. Paul Lieberstein was cast as human resources director Toby Flenderson on Novak's suggestion after his cold readings of scripts.[38] Greg Daniels was originally unsure where to use Mindy Kaling on-screen until the opportunity came in the script for the second episode, "Diversity Day", where Michael needed to be slapped by a minority. "Since [that slap], I've been on the show" (as Kelly Kapoor), Kaling said.[42] Michael Schur has also made several guest appearances as Dwight's cousin Mose, and consulting producer Larry Wilmore has played diversity trainer Mr. Brown.
Plans were made for Mackenzie Crook, Martin Freeman and Lucy Davis, from the British series, to appear in the third season,[44][45] but scheduling conflicts prevented them;[46] however, Ricky Gervais made two appearances in the show's seventh season as David Brent.[47]
The Office was filmed with a single-camera setup in cinéma vérité style to create the look of an actual documentary, with no studio audience or laugh track, allowing its "deadpan" and "absurd" humor to fully come across.[48] The show's primary premise is that a camera crew is filming Dunder Mifflin and its employees, seemingly around the clock.[48] The presence of the camera is acknowledged by the characters, especially Michael Scott, who enthusiastically participates in the filming.[49] The characters, especially Jim and Pam, also look towards the camera when Michael creates an awkward situation.[27] The show's main action is supplemented with talking-head interviews or "confessionals" where characters speak one-on-one with the camera.[27] Actor John Krasinski shot the footage of Scranton for the opening credits when he found out he was cast as Jim. He visited Scranton for research and interviewed employees at actual paper companies.[50]
To create the show's documentary style,  the producers hired cinematographer Randall Einhorn, known for directing episodes of Survivor, who gave the show its "rough and jumpy" feel.[49] This was facilitated by the main set's open floor plan, purposely designed by showrunner Daniels, production designer Donald Lee Harris (Matt Flynn became production designer later), and pilot director Ken Kwapis to allow camera operators to catch characters "unaware".[51] Unlike most sets, the office layout was built with immovable walls to emphasize its airless, claustrophobic atmosphere—"trapping" the documentary film crew with the characters.
Producer Michael Schur said that the series would strictly follow the documentary format.[52] The producers and directors had long discussions on how scenes could work in the documentary format.[52] For example, in the fourth-season episode "Did I Stutter?", a scene featured Michael going through a long process to go to the bathroom without passing Stanley. The producers debated whether it was possible, and Einhorn walked through the scene to see if a camera operator could get everywhere to shoot the whole scene.[52] Later seasons relaxed the format, with the camera crew often going where actual documentary crews would not. This also changed the series' writing and comedy styles,[53] an inconsistency criticized by some reviewers and fans.[53][54]
When it came to choosing the theme music for The Office, producer Greg Daniels had several tracks he was thinking of using:[55] existing songs including "Better Things" by The Kinks, "Float On" by Modest Mouse, and "Mr. Blue Sky" by Electric Light Orchestra,[56] and several original pieces artists contributed to the producers via a cattle call.[57] Daniels decided that the cast would vote on what song to use and gave them four of the choices.[55] Most of them wanted "Mr. Blue Sky", but that option turned out to be invalid as it was already used in the drama series LAX (2004–2005).[56] Thus, the final choice was an original track written by Jay Ferguson and performed by The Scrantones.[58]
The theme is played over the title sequence, which features scenes of Scranton, various tasks around the office, and the main cast members. Some episodes of the series use a shortened version of the theme song. Starting with the fourth season, the theme song is played over the closing credits, which previously rolled in silence. Ferguson described his theme as "against type; it has this vulnerability, this yearning to it that soon explodes into this overdone optimism which then gets crushed - which is pretty much what the show is about."[57]
The mockumentary format of the show contains no laugh track, and most of the music is diegetic, with songs either sung or played by the characters or heard on radios, computers, or other devices; however, songs have been played during montages or the closing credits, such as "Tiny Dancer" by Elton John ("The Dundies") and "Islands in the Stream" by Kenny Rogers and Dolly Parton ("E-mail Surveillance").[59][22] Featured music tends to be well known, and often songs reflect the character, such as Michael's attempt to seem hip by using "Mambo No. 5" and later "My Humps" as his cell phone ringtone.[59] Michael confusing Lady Gaga's "Just Dance" with Britney Spears' "Gimme More" is another example of this.[60] Daniels has said that it does not count as film score as long as it already appeared in the episode.[22]
The Office features an ensemble cast.
Many of its characters are based on characters in the original British series. While these characters generally have the same attitudes and perceptions as their British counterparts, the roles were modified to fit the American show. The show is known for its relatively large cast, and many of its actors and actresses are known particularly for their improvisational work.
Steve Carell stars as Michael Scott, regional manager of the Dunder Mifflin Scranton Branch. Loosely based on David Brent, Gervais' character in the British series, Scott is a well-intentioned man whose oblivious attempts at humor often offend and annoy his peers and employees, and sometimes draw reprimands from his superiors. Rainn Wilson portrays Dwight Schrute, based on Gareth Keenan, who is a salesman and the Assistant to the Regional Manager, an imaginary title created by Michael.[61]
John Krasinski portrays Jim Halpert, a salesman and, in later seasons, assistant manager or co-manager who is known for his wittiness and his practical jokes on Dwight. Halpert is based upon Tim Canterbury and, at the start of the series, is known to have feelings for receptionist Pam Beesly, who is engaged to warehouse worker Roy.[62] Pam, played by Jenna Fischer, is based on Dawn Tinsley. She is shy but often collaborates with Jim in his pranks on Dwight.[63]
B. J. Novak portrays Ryan Howard, who for the first two seasons is a temporary worker but is promoted to a sales representative in the third season. He later ascends to be the company's youngest vice president, North East Region, and director of new media until his innovations are exposed as corporate fraud and he is fired. He then gets a job in a bowling alley and later briefly works for the Michael Scott Paper Company. After this and a stint in rehab, he again eventually ends up as a temporary worker at the Scranton branch.[64]
The accounting department includes Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey), an uptight and ultra-religious woman who likes to keep things orderly and make sure situations remain as businesslike as possible; Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), a lovable but dim-witted man who revels in juvenile humor and frequently indulges in gambling; and Oscar Martinez (Oscar Nuñez), who is intelligent and cultured, but often patronizing, and whose homosexuality and Hispanic heritage made him a frequent target of Michael's unintentional off-color comments. Rounding out the office are the laconic salesman Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker), who cannot stand Michael's constant references to his Black American heritage (he also does not like to take part in time-wasting meetings and often solves crossword puzzles or sleeps during them); eccentric quality assurance representative Creed Bratton, who has a mysterious criminal history; the matronly saleswoman Phyllis Lapin (Phyllis Smith), who dates and then marries Bob Vance (Robert R. Shafer) from Vance Refrigeration, a company whose office is across the hall from Dunder Mifflin; Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), a salesman from the Stamford, Connecticut branch of Dunder Mifflin introduced in season three who transfers to the Scranton branch after the two offices merge; the shallow and talkative customer service representative Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling); the promiscuous alcoholic supply relations representative Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery); human resources representative Toby Flenderson (Paul Lieberstein), who is loathed, and often the target of abuse, by Michael; warehouse foreman Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson); warehouse dock worker and Pam's fiancé Roy Anderson (David Denman), who is fired in the third season for attacking Jim; and the vice president for regional sales for Dunder Mifflin Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin), who later becomes Michael's love interest.
Toward the end of season five, the bubbly and naive Erin Hannon (Ellie Kemper) is introduced as Pam's replacement at the reception following Pam's short stint at the Michael Scott Paper Company and subsequent move to sales. Erin has a personality that makes it difficult for anyone to dislike her, and develops a unique bond with Michael when he becomes almost a father figure in her life. A story arc at the end of season four has Holly Flax (Amy Ryan) transferred to the office as Toby's replacement. She becomes a love interest for Michael, as they share very similar personality traits. Jo Bennett (Kathy Bates) is the CEO of Sabre. This company takes over Dunder Mifflin, and Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods), introduced in the middle of season six, is a Sabre employee who is assigned to the Dunder Mifflin Scranton branch as the regional director of sales. In season seven, Bennett's friend Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) is interviewed to replace Scott and later serves as a replacement regional manager for Bernard in season eight after Robert California (James Spader) has become the new CEO of Sabre. In season nine, Clark Green (Clark Duke) and Pete Miller (Jake Lacy) join as new customer service representatives who attempt to catch up on the ignored customer service complaints that Kelly has neglected while working at Dunder Mifflin. Clark is later moved to sales.
Initially, the actors who portray the supporting office workers were credited as guest stars, but then were named series regulars during the second season.[65] The show's large ensemble was mainly praised by critics and led to the series winning two Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series.[66]
Carell was reportedly paid $175,000 per episode starting in the third season.[67] Krasinski and Fischer were paid around $20,000 at the beginning of the series,[67] and around $100,000 per episode by the fourth season.[67]
A typical episode for a half-hour time slot runs .mw-parser-output .frac{white-space:nowrap}.mw-parser-output .frac .num,.mw-parser-output .frac .den{font-size:80%;line-height:0;vertical-align:super}.mw-parser-output .frac .den{vertical-align:sub}.mw-parser-output .sr-only{border:0;clip:rect(0,0,0,0);clip-path:polygon(0px 0px,0px 0px,0px 0px);height:1px;margin:-1px;overflow:hidden;padding:0;position:absolute;width:1px}20+1⁄2 minutes.[68] The final episode of season two introduced the first of what would be several "super-sized" episodes that had an approximately 28-minute running time for a 40-minute time slot.[69] Season three introduced the first of occasional hour-long episodes (approximately 42-minute running time, also suitable for being shown as two separate normal episodes in reruns).[70]
The first season consists of six episodes; the shortest season of the series.
The series starts by introducing Dunder Mifflin's employees via a tour given by branch manager Michael Scott for both a documentary camera crew and first-day temp Ryan Howard.[71] Salesman Jim Halpert has a crush on receptionist Pam Beesly, who helps him play pranks on co-worker Dwight Schrute, even though she is engaged to Roy Anderson, who works in the company's downstairs warehouse. Rumors spread throughout the office that Dunder Mifflin's corporate headquarters is planning to downsize an entire branch, leading to general anxiety. Still, Michael chooses to deny or downplay the realities of the situation to maintain employee morale.
The second season is the series' first 22-episode season and has its first 28-minute "super-sized" episode.
Many workers seen in the background of the first season are developed into secondary characters and romantic relationships begin to develop between some of them.  Michael makes out with and then spends the night with his boss, Jan Levinson, but does not have sex with her.[72] Dwight and Angela become romantically involved,[73] but keep their relationship a secret. Kelly Kapoor develops a crush on Ryan, and they start dating off and on. When Roy finally agrees to set a date for his wedding to Pam,[74] at a company booze cruise, Jim grows depressed and considers transferring to the Stamford, Connecticut branch, but tells Pam in the season finale that he is in love with her. Even though Pam insists she is with Roy, the two kiss, and Jim transfers to the Stamford branch soon after.[75] The general threat of downsizing continues throughout the season as well.
The third season consists of 17 half-hour episodes, four 40-minute "super-sized" episodes, and two one-hour episodes. The total number of episodes is 25.
The season starts with a brief flashback to (and additional footage from) the last episode of season two, "Casino Night", when Jim kissed Pam and confessed his feelings for her. Jim briefly transfers to Dunder Mifflin's Stamford branch after Pam confirms her commitment to Roy. Corporate is later forced to merge the Stamford branch with the Scranton branch.[76] Michael takes this merger very seriously. Transferred to the Scranton branch are saleswoman Karen Filippelli, whom Jim has begun dating, and the anger-prone preppy salesman Andy Bernard, along with other Stamford employees who all eventually quit within the first few episodes of being there. Pam is newly single after calling off her engagement to Roy, and Jim's unresolved feelings for her and his new relationship with Karen lead to shifting tensions between the three. Meanwhile, Michael and Jan's relationship escalates, which causes them to behave erratically on the job. On the other hand, Dwight and Angela continue their steamy secret relationship. In the season's finale, Jim, Karen, and Michael interview for a corporate position that turns out to be Jan's, who is fired for poor performance. Jim is offered the job but rejects it off-screen,[77] opting instead to remain in Scranton without Karen and ask Pam out on a date, which she joyfully accepts. In the final scene, we learn Ryan has been awarded Jan's job.[78]
NBC ordered a fourth full season of thirty half-hour episodes but ended with only 19 due to a halt in production caused by the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike.[79][80] The season consists of nine half-hour and five hour-long episodes for a total of 19 episodes of material created.
Karen has left the Scranton branch after her breakup with Jim and becomes the regional manager at the Utica branch.[81][82] A self-employed Jan moves herself and her candle business into Michael's condo, until the dissolution of their relationship midway through the season during an intimate dinner party including Pam, Jim, Andy, Angela and Dwight. This episode showcases what has become a very toxic and unhealthy relationship between Michael and Jan. After Dwight's crude (though well-intentioned) method of euthanasia of Angela's ailing cat without her permission,[83] she leaves him for Andy, leading Dwight into depression. Ryan, in his new corporate life in New York City, attempts to modernize Dunder Mifflin with a new website for online sales; he also learns that his boss, David Wallace, favors Jim, and thus Ryan attempts to sabotage Jim's career. Ryan is soon arrested and fired for misleading the shareholders and committing fraud related to the website's sales numbers. Toby announces he is moving to Costa Rica and is replaced by Holly Flax, who quickly shows a liking for Michael. Pam decides to follow her artistic interests and is accepted to attend a three-month graphic design course at the Pratt Institute in New York City. In the season finale, Jim almost proposes to Pam but is interrupted by Andy proposing to Angela, who reluctantly agrees. Phyllis then catches Dwight and Angela having sex in the office.[84]
The fifth season consists of 28 half-hours of material, divided into 24 half-hour episodes and two hour-long episodes, one of which aired after Super Bowl XLIII.[85]
Jim proposes to Pam at a gas station halfway between Scranton and New York City, where they meet for a visit. Pam ultimately returns from New York to Scranton, where Jim has bought his parents' house for the two of them. Having avoided jail and only been sentenced to community service, Ryan bleaches his hair and starts working at a bowling alley. Michael initiates a romance with Holly until she is transferred to the Nashua, New Hampshire branch, Toby returns to Scranton to replace Holly, and their relationship ends. When Andy is made aware of Dwight and Angela's continued affair, both men leave her.[86] Newly hired Vice President Charles Miner implements a rigid managerial style over the branch that causes Michael to resign in protest.[87] Michael opens the Michael Scott Paper Company in the same office building, enticing Pam and Ryan to join as salespeople, and though his business model is ultimately unsustainable, Dunder Mifflin's profits are immediately threatened.[88] In a buyout of the Michael Scott Paper Company, the three are rehired with Pam promoted to sales and Ryan returning as a temp. During the chaos a new receptionist, Erin, is hired to fill the vacancy originally left by Pam. The season ends with a scene that subtly alludes to Pam's (unplanned) pregnancy.
The sixth season consists of 26 half-hours of material, divided into 22 half-hour episodes and two hour-long episodes.
Jim and Pam marry and have a baby named Cecelia Marie Halpert.[89] Meanwhile, Andy and Erin develop an interest in each other, but find their inherent awkwardness inhibits his attempts to ask her out on a date during a murder-mystery game meant to distract the members of the office. Jim is promoted as co-manager. Rumors of bankruptcy begin to surround Dunder Mifflin, and by Christmas, Wallace announces to the branch that Dunder Mifflin has accepted a buyout from Sabre Corporation, a printer company. While Wallace and other executives are let go, the Scranton office survives due to its relative success within the company. Michael Scott is now the highest-level employee at Dunder Mifflin.  In the season finale, Dwight buys the office park. Michael agrees to make an announcement to the press regarding a case of faulty printers. When Jo Bennett, Sabre CEO, asks how she can repay him, Michael responds that she could bring Holly back to the Scranton branch.[90]
The seventh season consists of 26 half-hours of material, divided into 21 half-hour episodes, one "super-sized" episode, and two hour-long episodes.[91]
This was the final season for Steve Carell, who plays Michael Scott, as NBC did not renew Carell's contract.[92] Beginning with this season, Zach Woods, who portrays Gabe Lewis, was promoted to a series regular.[93] Erin and Gabe have begun a relationship, much to Andy's chagrin, and Andy attempts to win Erin's affection back. Holly, Michael's former girlfriend, returns to Scranton to fill in for Toby, who is on jury duty for the "Scranton Strangler" trial. Michael and Holly eventually restart their relationship. After the two get engaged, Michael reveals he will be leaving Scranton to move to Colorado with Holly to support her elderly parents. Jim and Pam adjust to parenthood, while Angela starts dating state senator Robert Lipton and gets engaged off-screen in the season finale. After Michael's replacement Deangelo (Will Ferrell) is seriously injured on the job, Jo creates a search committee to interview candidates and choose a new manager for the office. In the meantime, Dwight Schrute, and later Creed Bratton, took over as acting manager.
The eighth season consists of 24 episodes.
James Spader joins the cast as Robert California, the new CEO of Dunder Mifflin/Sabre.[94] Andy is then promoted to regional manager and works hard to make a good impression on Robert, asking Dwight to be his number two.[95] Pam and Jim are expecting their second child, Phillip, at the start of the season, to coincide with Fischer's real-life pregnancy.[96] Angela is also pregnant with her first son, also named Philip, with State Senator Robert Lipton (although it is implied that Dwight Schrute is the child's biological father). Darryl starts falling for the new warehouse foreman, Val.[97] Dwight is tasked with traveling to Tallahassee, Florida, to assist Sabre special projects manager Nellie Bertram (Catherine Tate) in launching a chain of retail stores, along with Jim, Ryan, Stanley, Erin, and new office temp Cathy Simms. Cathy is also revealed to have ulterior motives for the trip, as she intends to seduce Jim. Still, she fails.[98] Robert later kills the retail store project, and Erin decides to stay in Florida as an elderly woman's live-in helper. Andy goes to Florida to win back Erin, allowing Nellie to claim the manager position as her own. Robert tells Andy that he has been demoted back to a salesman, but Andy refuses to accept the news, which causes him to be fired. Andy becomes motivated to begin a Dunder Mifflin comeback and joins with former CFO David Wallace, now a millionaire, to repurchase Dunder Mifflin from Sabre, putting Sabre completely out of business and giving Andy the manager position once again.
The final season consists of 25 episodes.
Andy, recently returning from Outward Bound manager training, reverts to his arrogant earlier season personality, abandoning both Erin and the office to travel around the Caribbean with his brother in their sailboat after his parents' relationship's demise. In his absence, Erin strikes up a romance with new customer service rep Pete, who, along with another new customer service rep Clark, replaces Kelly, leaving for Ohio with her new husband. (Ryan also moves to Ohio for "unrelated reasons.") Meanwhile, Jim receives an exciting opportunity from an old college friend who offers him a job at Athlead, a Philadelphia sports marketing company. Darryl also jumps on board, but the distance and dedication to Athlead hurt Jim's relationship with Pam. Angela must deal with her husband's infidelity with Oscar. She also deals with her lingering attraction to Dwight, who inherits his family's beet farm. Dwight receives more good news when David Wallace handpicks him to be the new manager after Andy quits to pursue an acting career, which quickly ends when he embarrasses himself at an American Idol-like a cappella singing competition that turns into a viral web sensation. Dwight later makes Jim his assistant to the regional manager, and the two officially end their grudge.
After Jim reconciles with Pam, choosing to stay in Scranton over Philadelphia, Dwight professes his love for Angela and finally marries her. In the series finale, which takes place one year after the release of the documentary that was shot during the entire series, the employees reunite for Dwight and Angela's wedding, for which Michael returns to serve as the best man (with help from Jim who was the person Dwight first asked to be best man). Kelly and Ryan run away together, Nellie now lives in Poland and "adopts" Ryan's abandoned baby, Erin meets her birth parents, Andy gets a job at Cornell, Stanley retires to Florida, Kevin and Toby are both fired—the former buying a bar, the latter moving to New York City to become an author, and Oscar runs for the State Senate. Jim and Pam, at her persuasion, move to Austin, Texas to open a new branch of Athleap (previously Athlead) with Darryl (Dwight "fires" them to give them both severance packages), and Creed is arrested for his many crimes.
The Office has had product placement deals with Staples[99] and Olympic balers,[100] as well as mentioning in dialogue or displaying clear logos for products such as Sandals Resorts, HP, Apple, and Gateway computers, and Activision's Call of Duty video game series. In certain versions of "The Merger", Kevin Malone uses a Staples-branded shredding machine to shred a Staples-branded CD-R and many other nonpaper items, including a salad.[99] Cisco Systems, a supplier of networking and telephone equipment, paid for product placement, which can be seen on close-up shots of the Cisco IP telephones. Some products have additional branding labels attached; this can be clearly seen with the HP photo printer on Toby's desk in season 6, and less noticeably with the Cisco phones.[101] In "The Secret" Michael takes Jim to Hooters[102] to discuss Jim's feelings for Pam.
Many products featured are not part of product placement agreements but rather inserted by writers as products the characters would use to create realism under the guise of a documentary. Chili's restaurants were used for filming in "The Dundies" and "The Client", as the writers believed they were realistic choices for a company party and business lunch.[103][104][105] Though not an explicit product placement, the producers of the show had to allow Chili's to have final approval of the script before filming, causing a scene of "The Dundies" to be hastily rewritten when the chain objected to the original version.[104] Wegmans, a supermarket chain based out of Rochester, New York has had a working relationship with the show since the fall of 2007. Wegmans cereal, popcorn and cans of Wegmans soda have discreetly popped up in many episodes since then.[106] Apple Inc. received over four minutes of publicity for the iPod when it was used as a much-desired gift in "Christmas Party", though the company did not pay for the placement.[107] The travel website TripAdvisor was featured during Season 4 when after a visit to Dwight's "agritourism" bed and breakfast, Schrute Farms, Jim and Pam post an online review about their stay. The show reportedly approached the travel review website about using their name on the show and TripAdvisor set up a review page for the fictional B&B, which itself received hundreds of reviews.[108] The appearance of Second Life in the episode "Local Ad" was rated eighth in the top ten most effective product placements of 2007.[109]
Before the show aired, Ricky Gervais acknowledged that there were feelings of hesitation from certain viewers.[110] The first season of The Office was met with a mixed response from critics with some of them comparing it to the short-lived NBC series Coupling, which was also based on a British version.[111][112] The New York Daily News called it "so diluted there's little left but muddy water," and USA Today called it a "passable imitation of a miles-better BBC original."[113] A Guardian Unlimited review panned its lack of originality, stating that Steve Carell "just seems to be trying too hard.... Maybe in later episodes when it deviates from Gervais and Merchant's script, he'll come into his own. But right now he's a pale imitation."[114] Tom Shales of The Washington Post said it was "not the mishmash that [the Americanized version of Coupling] turned out to be, but again the quality of the original show causes the remake to look dim, like when the copying machine is just about to give out."[112]
"The Office has one of the best casts on television.... It also has created several compelling characters and touching relationships, all of which is fairly remarkable for a half-hour comedy."
—Travis Fickett of IGN in June 2007[115]The second season was better received. James Poniewozik of Time remarked, "Producer Greg Daniels created not a copy but an interpretation that sends up distinctly American work conventions ... with a tone that's more satiric and less mordant... The new boss is different from the old boss, and that's fine by me."[116] He named it the second-best TV show of 2006 after Battlestar Galactica.[116] Entertainment Weekly writer Mark Harris echoed these sentiments a week later, stating, "Thanks to the fearless Steve Carell, an ever-stronger supporting cast, and scripts that spew American corporate absurdist vernacular with perfect pitch, this undervalued remake does the near-impossible—it honors Ricky Gervais' original and works on its own terms."[117] The A.V. Club reviewer Nathan Rabin expressed its views on the show's progression: "After a rocky start, The Office improved immeasurably, instantly becoming one of TV's funniest, sharpest shows. The casting of Steve Carell in the Gervais role proved to be a masterstroke. The American Office is that rarest of anomalies: a remake of a classic show that both does right by its source and carves out its own strong identity."[118]
The series has been included on several top TV series lists. The show placed #61 on Entertainment Weekly's "New TV Classics" list.[119] Time's James Poniewozik named it the second-best TV series of 2006,[116] and the sixth-best returning series of 2007, out of ten TV series.[120] He also included it on his "The 100 Best TV Shows of All-TIME" list.[121] The show was also named the best show of 2006 by BuddyTV.[122] while Paste named it the sixth-best sitcom of 2010.[123] In 2013 the Writers Guild of America placed it at No. 66 on their list of 101 Best Written TV Series.[124] In 2019, the series was ranked 32nd on The Guardian's list of the 100 best TV shows of the 21st century.[125]
The show has some superficial similarities to the comic strip Dilbert, which also features employees coping with an inept superior. John Spector, CEO of The Conference Board, says that they both show the impact a leader can have, for good or bad. Dilbert creator Scott Adams also touts the similarities: "The lesson from The Office and from Dilbert is that people are often dysfunctional, and no amount of training can fix it."[126] A labor-affiliated group, American Rights at Work (ARAW), praised the second-season episode "Boys and Girls" for what it considered an unusually frank depiction of union busting on American television.[127] Metacritic, a review aggregation website, graded only the first, third, sixth, and final seasons; however, it denoted that all four of them received "generally favorable reviews" from critics, awarding a 61, 85, 78, and 64 score—out of 100—to each of them, respectively.[128][129][130][131] It later named it the thirteenth most mentioned series on "Best of Decade" top-ten lists.[132]
"The Office now is a pale, listless shadow of what it used to be."
—Alan Sepinwall of HitFix in September 2011, during the show's eighth season.[133]The last few seasons were criticized for a dip in quality. The sixth season received criticisms for a lack of stakes for the characters, particularly Jim and Pam.[134][135][136][137] The Office co-creator Ricky Gervais wrote in his blog, referring to "Search Committee," particularly Warren Buffett's guest appearance, "If you're going to jump a shark, jump a big one," and compared the episode to the Chris Martin episode of Gervais' other series, Extras (although he later said on his website, "I fucking didn't [diss The Office], that's for sure").[138] Some critics said the series should have ended after the departure of Steve Carell.[139][140] In an IAmA interview on Reddit, Rainn Wilson felt that the eighth season possessed some mistakes "creatively," such as the chemistry between Spader and Helms, which he called "a bit dark" and argued that the show should have gone for a "brighter and more energized" relationship.[141] Despite this, there are later-series episodes that have received critical acclaim, including "Niagara",[142] "Garage Sale",[143] "Goodbye, Michael",[144] "Dwight Christmas",[145] "A.A.R.M.",[146] and "Finale".[147]
The series received 42 Primetime Emmy Awards nominations, with five wins.[149] It won for Outstanding Comedy Series in season two, Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series (Greg Daniels for "Gay Witch Hunt"), Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series (Jeffrey Blitz for "Stress Relief"), and Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series (David Rogers and Claire Scanlon for "Finale"). Many cast and crew members have expressed anger that Carell did not receive an Emmy award for his performance in the series.[150][151] Despite this, Carell won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Television Comedy or Musical in 2006. The series was also named the best TV series by the American Film Institute in 2006 and 2008,[152][153] won two Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series in 2006 and 2007[66] and won a Peabody Award in 2006.[154]
Premiering on Thursday, March 24, 2005 with a "preview" episode, after an episode of The Apprentice on NBC, The Office brought in 11.2 million viewers in the U.S., winning its time slot.[113] When NBC moved the series to its intended Tuesday night slot for its official series premiere, it lost nearly half its audience with only 5.9 million viewers.[155] The program averaged 5.4 million viewers, ranking it #102 for the 2004–05 U.S. television season.[156] "Hot Girl," the first season's finale, rated a 2.2 with a 10 audience measurement share. Episodes were also rerun on CNBC on April 1 and April 24, 2005.[157][158]
As the second season started, the success of Carell's hit summer movie The 40-Year-Old Virgin and online sales of episodes at iTunes helped the show.[159] The increase in viewership led NBC to move the series to the "Must See TV" Thursday night in January 2006, where ratings continued to grow. By the 2005–06 season, it placed #67 (tied with 20/20). It averaged 8 million viewers with a 4.0/10 rating/share among viewers ages 18–49, and was up 80% in viewers from the year before and up 60% in viewers ages 18–49.[160] The series ranked as NBC's highest rated scripted series during its run.[161] The highest rated episode of the series was "Stress Relief," which was watched by 22.9 million viewers. This episode was aired right after Super Bowl XLIII.[162] While later seasons dropped in the ratings, the show was still one of NBC's highest rated shows, and in October 2011 it was reported that it cost $178,840 per 30-second commercial, the most for any NBC scripted series.[163] The series was also the most streamed of 2020, with 57 billion minutes watched in the United States.[164]
The city of Scranton, long known mainly for its industrial past as a coal mining and rail center,[190] has embraced, and ultimately has been redefined by the show. "We're really hip now," says the mayor's assistant.[191] The Dunder Mifflin logo is on a lamppost banner in front of Scranton City Hall, as well as the pedestrian bridge to The Mall at Steamtown. The Pennsylvania Paper & Supply Company, whose tower is shown in the opening credits, plans to add it to the tower as well.[192] Newspapers in other Northeastern cities have published travel guides to Scranton locations for tourists interested in visiting places mentioned in the show.[190][192][193] Scranton has become identified with the show outside the United States as well. In a 2008 St. Patrick's Day speech in its suburb of Dickson City, former Taoiseach (the Irish Head of Government) Bertie Ahern identified the city as the home of Dunder Mifflin.[194]
The inaugural The Office convention was held downtown in October 2007. Notable landmarks, some of which have been settings for the show, that served as venues include the University of Scranton, the Radisson Lackawanna Station Hotel and the Mall at Steamtown. Cast appearances were made by B. J. Novak, Ed Helms, Oscar Nunez, Angela Kinsey, Brian Baumgartner, Leslie David Baker, Mindy Kaling, Craig Robinson, Melora Hardin, Phyllis Smith, Creed Bratton, Kate Flannery, Bobby Ray Shafer, and Andy Buckley. Besides Novak and Kaling, writer appearances were made by Greg Daniels, Michael Schur, Jennifer Celotta, Lee Eisenberg, Gene Stupnitsky, Justin Spitzer, Anthony Ferrell, Ryan Koh, Lester Lewis, and Jason Kessler. Not present were writer-actor Paul Lieberstein (who was originally going to make an appearance), Steve Carell, John Krasinski, Rainn Wilson, and Jenna Fischer.[195]
On an episode of The Daily Show, Republican presidential candidate John McCain, reportedly a devoted fan of the show, jokingly told Jon Stewart he might take Dwight Schrute as his running mate.[196] Rainn Wilson later accepted on Dwight Schrute's behalf while on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. After the airing of "Garage Sale," where the character of Michael Scott decides to move to Colorado, Colorado governor John Hickenlooper issued a press release appointing Scott to the position of director of paper distribution in the Department of Natural Resources.[197]
The show is often paid tribute by the band Relient K. Frontman Matt Thiessen is a fan of The Office, and during concerts will often perform a self-described "love song" about the series, titled "The Ballad of Dunder Mifflin," followed by him and the band playing the show's opening theme.[198]
A parody musical, titled The Office! A Musical Parody, written by Bob McSmith, Tobly McSmith, and Assaf Gleizner, began performances at The Jerry Orbach Theatre on September 24, 2018, with an official opening on October 3, 2018.[199] The show temporarily closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and resumed performances on April 9, 2021, becoming the first New York City stage musical to reopen following the pandemic.[200] Cast members Jenna Fischer and Angela Kinsey attended a performance in May 2022.[201]
NBC webcast the "Diversity Day" episode on March 16, 2005, on MySpace to promote the show's then-upcoming premiere, days before the TV broadcasts began. This was  NBC's first-ever online debut of a complete episode of a network series, and also included a trimmed-down webisode version of the episode for on-demand viewing on MySpace the following day.[202] Episodes from The Office were among the first shows available for download from the iTunes Store and for free streaming on NBC.com beginning in December 2005. In 2006, ten internet-exclusive webisodes featuring some of the characters on The Office aired on NBC.com. "Producer's Cuts" (containing approximately ten additional minutes of material) of the episodes "Branch Closing" and "The Return" were also made available on NBC.com. The Office also became available for download from Amazon.com's Unbox video downloads in 2006. Sales of new The Office episodes on iTunes ceased in 2007 due to a dispute between NBC and Apple ostensibly overpricing.[203] As of September 9, 2008, The Office was put back on the iTunes Store and can be bought in HD and SD format. It is also available through all other major digital distribution sales platforms.
Netflix also offered the show for online viewing by subscribers, in addition to traditional DVD rental.[204] The series would become one of the most streamed shows on Netflix, with its availability on a streamer leading to the show's sustained popularity.[205][206][207] The Office left Netflix on December 31, 2020, as NBCUniversal acquired the rights to the show for its streaming service Peacock, which joined the following day. Exclusive to Peacock are extended episodes which include deleted scenes and additional footage.[208][209][210] The first five seasons previously stream for free but now are premium only, and seasons 6–9 are available to stream on its premium tier.[211][212][213]
When the show was in production, it was noted for its large amount of delayed viewing. Of the 12.4 million total viewings of "Fun Run," the fourth season's premiere, 2.7 million, or 22%, were on a computer via online streaming. "The Office," said The New York Times, "is on the leading edge of a sharp shift in entertainment viewing that was thought to be years away: watching television episodes on a computer screen is now a common activity for millions of consumers." It was particularly popular with online viewers, an NBC researcher said, because as an episode-driven sitcom without special effects it was easy to watch on smaller monitors such as those found on laptops and iPods.[214] Between the online viewings and those who use digital video recorders, 25–50% of the show's viewers watched it after its scheduled airtime.[215]
The show's Internet success became an issue in the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike. Daniels and many of the cast members who double as writers posted a video to YouTube shortly after the strike began, pointing out how little if any, they received in residuals from online and DVD viewing. "You're watching this on the Internet, a thing that pays us zero dollars," Schur said. "We're supposed to get 11 cents for every two trillion downloads." The writers were particularly upset that they weren't compensated for the Daytime Emmy Award-winning summer webisodes "The Accountants", which NBC considered promotional material despite the embedded commercials.[216]
Aside from NBC, The Office has gone into syndication in the United States. It previously ran on local broadcast stations in off-network syndication and TBS. On December 13, 2017, Comedy Central announced that they had acquired all nine seasons of the show from NBCUniversal in a non-exclusive deal, and some episodes are available to stream on Comedy Central's official website and mobile app on a rotating basis. Reruns of The Office began airing on Comedy Central on January 15, 2018.[217] The deal between Viacom (who owns Comedy Central) and NBCUniversal (for rights for airing reruns of The Office) was extended throughout 2021. The series will then air in a non-exclusive window on Viacom Media Networks through 2025.[218] The series aired on Cozi TV from January 1, 2019, to October 3, 2021.[219] It also aired on Nick at Nite starting January 1, 2019, and later on Paramount Network, although Nick at Nite no longer airs the program as of May 5, 2019. The show then began airing on Freeform on January 1, 2022.[220] In the United Kingdom, the show was named in listings magazines (but not onscreen) as The Office: An American Workplace when it originally aired there on ITV2.[221] In Australia, all 9 seasons air on 10 Shake.[222]
The show's success has resulted in expansion outside of television. Characters have appeared in promotional materials for NBC, and a licensed video game—The Office—was released on November 28, 2007, by MumboJumbo from the development company Reveille.[223][224] In 2008 two games were introduced via Pressman Toy Corp: The Office Trivia Board Game and The Office DVD Board Game.[225] In 2009, The Office Clue was released, and The Office Monopoly was released in 2010. Other merchandise, from T-shirts and a bobblehead doll of Dwight Schrute[226] to more office-specific items such as Dunder Mifflin copy paper[227] and parodies of the Successories motivational poster series featuring the cast[228] are available. Dunder Mifflin had two websites,[229] and the cast members maintained blogs both as themselves and in character.
Several members of the cast maintained blogs on MySpace, including Jenna Fischer, Angela Kinsey, and Brian Baumgartner, who posted regularly during the season.[230] Rainn Wilson wrote in character as Dwight for the "Schrute Space" blog on NBC.com, which was updated periodically; however, he stopped writing the blog himself.[231] It is unknown whether Creed Bratton authors "Creed Thoughts," the blog attributed to his character.[232]
On September 11, 2019, Jenna Fischer and Angela Kinsey announced their podcast called Office Ladies which premiered on October 16, 2019, on Earwolf. The podcast features Fischer and Kinsey watching episodes of The Office and offering behind-the-scenes details and answering fan questions.[233] The theme song for the podcast, "Rubber Tree" is performed by Creed Bratton.[234]
In February 2021, Brian Baumgartner started a podcast called The Office Deep Dive with Brian Baumgartner in which he sits down with other actors, writers, and others who worked on the show and share behind-the-scenes stories about the show. The podcast introduction song, "Bubble and Squeek" is performed by Creed Bratton.[235]
The complete series of The Office was released on Blu-ray from Universal Pictures Home Entertainment on November 10, 2020.[242]
A spin-off to the series was proposed in 2008,[243] with a pilot episode expected to debut as the Super Bowl lead-out program in 2009. The idea created by the writers was that a copy machine breaks in The Office and then it is recalled, fixed, and shipped to Pawnee, Indiana, the setting of Parks and Recreation. However, The Office's creative team instead decided to develop Parks and Recreation as a separate series.[244][245] Also, actress Rashida Jones was to portray a different character in both, causing a problem for the potential spin-off.[246]
Another spin-off starring Rainn Wilson as Dwight Schrute running a bed-and-breakfast and beet farm, titled The Farm, was proposed in early 2012.[6][247] In October 2012, however, NBC decided not to go forward with the series.[248] A backdoor pilot episode was produced, and although the show was not picked up, it was modified and aired during the ninth season as "The Farm".[247][249]
In July 2020, Leslie David Baker launched a Kickstarter campaign to fund the production of a pilot for Uncle Stan, a proposed spin-off focusing on a now-engaged Stanley Hudson as "After several years of enjoying a relatively uneventful retirement lifestyle, Uncle Stan receives an urgent call for help from his favorite nephew, Lucky: a recent widower with two small children and a motorcycle repair/flower shop in Los Angeles. Soon Uncle Stan finds himself dishing out all the support and guidance he has to offer in his new California home."[250] As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, plans for the spinoff were put "on hold" and later cancelled, with Leslie David Baker announcing that backers would be refunded.[251] In January 2024, it was announced that Greg Daniels is setting up a development room for a possible expansion of The Office to explore ideas for a follow-up series.[252]
In September 2019, with the announcement of NBCUniversal's streaming service Peacock, Bonnie Hammer, Chairman of Direct-to-Consumer and Digital Enterprises at NBCU stated that it is her "hope and goal that we do an Office reboot".[253] In March 2020, former showrunner Greg Daniels expressed doubts at a reboot being possible, and later that year, former NBC president of original content Bill McGoldrick stated that "a reboot has not come up specifically for Peacock".[254][255]
A reboot of the series was revealed to be in development in September 2023, with Greg Daniels returning as a showrunner.[256] In November 2023, Daniels clarified that he had no interest in rebooting the series by redoing "that same show with a different cast", instead preferring to have a spinoff series focusing on a different subject in the same world.[257]

